Transcriber's note: Unusual and inconsistent spelling is as printed.



                          _GOD AND MANKIND._

                               VOLUME I.



[Illustration: THE FAMILY CATECHISING.]



                         THEOLOGY IN ROMANCE:

                                  OR,

                 The Catechism and the Dermott family.


                                  BY

                       MRS. MADELINE LESLIE

     AUTHOR OF "HOME LIFE" AND OF "MRS. LESLIE'S JUVENILE SERIES"


                                 AND


                          REV. A. R. BAKER

         AUTHOR OF "THE CATECHISM TESTED BY THE BIBLE," ETC.



                               ————————


                                BOSTON:
                      JOHN P. JEWETT AND COMPANY.
                   CLEVELAND, OHIO: H. P. B. JEWETT.
                 PHILADELPHIA: WM. S. & ALFRED MARTIEN.

                                 1859.



       Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1859, by
                      JOHN P. JEWETT AND COMPANY,
     In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of
                            Massachusetts.



                         ELECTROTYPED AT THE
                      BOSTON STEREOTYPE FOUNDRY.



                             DEDICATION.

                           [Illustration]

                     THE VOLUMES OF THIS WORK

         ARE MOST AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED BY THE AUTHORS

                               TO THE

                     Y O U N G  C O N V E R T S

                               IN THE

               G R E A T  R E V I V A L  O F  1 8 5 8,

           IN THE HUMBLE HOPE OF AIDING THEIR PROGRESS IN

                   CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE AND GRACE.



                           INTRODUCTION.

                          [Illustration]

TEN years have completed their course since one of the associate
authors of these volumes published his first edition of "THE CATECHISM
TESTED BY THE BIBLE." It was sold in a few weeks. That work, in two
18mo. volumes, was revised and stereotyped the same year; and two
corresponding volumes, with the same title, but more simple and
explanatory, and therefore better adapted to young children, were
prepared and published with them.

Of these four books, recently revised, put into two, one for children,
the other for adults, and issued in a new stereotype edition, more than
two hundred thousand impressions have been printed. They have been
translated into several foreign languages; as into the Arabic by Rev.
H. M. Calhoun in Syria, where, by the blessing of God, they contribute
to the fulfilment of prophecy, and are helping to "turn Lebanon into
a fruitful field." In the Sandwich Islands, we are informed, they are
used by government authority as national text books, assisting to
confirm those who were so lately idolaters in "the faith which was
once delivered to the saints." They are "helps" at various missionary
stations, and have been widely circulated in the United States, the
British Provinces, and several transatlantic countries.

From highly respectable sources, the author of that work has received
applications for other volumes, in illustration of the doctrines
and duties of Christianity, as set forth in the admirable compend
thereof, drawn up by the Westminster Assembly, and entitled "The
Shorter Catechism." The first suggestion of this kind was received
years ago in an interview with Rev. T. H. Gallaudet, of Hartford,
Conn., whose numerous and popular works for the young demanded for his
judgment grave consideration. It was then that his rare gifts as a
writer awakened the hope of his future aid in the preparation of these
volumes—a hope the realization of which his death has precluded.

But Providence has kindly enabled the author of the former treatise
on the Catechism to avail himself of the efficient aid of his wife,
whose "Home Life," consisting at present of "Cora and the Doctor,"
"The Courtesies of Wedded Life," and "The Household Angel," and whose
"Juvenile Series," of which four volumes, "The Motherless Children,"
"Play and Study," "Howard and his Teacher," and "Trying to be Useful,"
have been very favorably noticed by the press and received by the
public. Two other volumes of the same series, "Striving and Thriving,"
and "I'll Try," are in press, and will shortly be issued.

The explanations and illustrations contained in the present volumes
exhibit the method, and in part the results, of her weekly catechising
of her own children, and of her instruction in Sabbath schools, also of
her husband's catechetical exercises with the children and youth of his
pastoral charge, for a long course of years.

They comprise the sum of their united experience, reading, and
observation, together with such anecdotes and fables as they have found
interesting and useful in this department of Christian nurture.

Each catechetical answer has been analyzed, and the subjects it
contains carefully studied by us individually. Then we have unitedly
agreed upon the method of explaining, illustrating, and enforcing its
truths. For the theology and ethics of these little volumes the author
is mainly responsible; but the background, drapery, and shading of the
picture, on which much of the interest and utility of the work depends,
is to be ascribed mainly to the authoress, whose nom de plume is
associated with his name upon the title page.

After a careful revision and preparation for the press, the work is
given to the public in the hope that it may aid parents, Sabbath school
teachers, and pastors in the religious education of the dear children
committed to their care, and may enable the rising generation better to
understand these subjects of divine knowledge, and more tenaciously to
"hold fast the form of sound words."



                        CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

                             ———————————

 CHAPTER I. MAN'S CHIEF END; OR, LITTLE LOTTY

 CHAPTER II. THE BIBLE; OR, THE SAILOR BOY

 CHAPTER III. THE DIVINE RULE; OR, AOLA

 CHAPTER IV. THE CHARACTER OF GOD; OR, PRAYER IN THE ASSEMBLY

 CHAPTER V. THE UNITY OF GOD; OR, THE MISSION HOUSE

 CHAPTER VI. THE GODHEAD; OR, THE SILENCED INFIDEL

 CHAPTER VII. THE PURPOSE OF GOD; OR, THE NEW HOUSE

 CHAPTER VIII. EXECUTION OF GOD'S PURPOSE; OR, THE POOR MINISTER

 CHAPTER IX. THE CREATION OF THE WORLD; OR, THE PATENT OFFICE

 CHAPTER X. THE CREATION OF MAN; OR, THE WAX DOLL

 CHAPTER XI. PROVIDENCE; OR, THE ILL-FATED BOAT

 CHAPTER XII. THE COVENANT OF WORKS; OR, THE FIRST WEDDING

 CHAPTER XIII. THE FALL OF MAN; OR, THE MYSTERIOUS BOX

 CHAPTER XIV. THE NATURE OF SIN; OR, THE CONVICT

 CHAPTER XV. THE FORBIDDEN FRUIT; OR, THE BROKEN RULE

 CHAPTER XVI. THE BROKEN COVENANT; OR, THE FAMILY OF THIEVES

 CHAPTER XVII. MAN'S FALLEN STATE; OR, THE DEPOSED MINISTER

 CHAPTER XVIII. MAN'S SINFULNESS; OR, THE DISEASED FAMILY

 CHAPTER XIX. MAN'S MISERY; OR, THE BATTLE FIELD

 CHAPTER XX. ELECTION AND REDEMPTION; OR, THE NEW HOME

 CHAPTER XXI. CHRIST, THE REDEEMER; OR, THE PARDONED REBELS



                         THEOLOGY IN ROMANCE.

                           [Illustration]

CHAPTER I.

MAN'S CHIEF END; OR, LITTLE LOTTY.


QUESTION I. _What is the chief end of man?_

ANSWER. Man's chief end is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever.

                              ——————

IT was truly a pleasant scene; the cheerful fire burned brightly in
the grate, as the little group gathered around their mother, their
eyes sparkling with the eager anticipation of pleasure. The hour so
much longed for had arrived; and Mrs. Dermott, taking in her hand a
nicely-bound volume of the Catechism, proceeded, in fulfilment of her
promise, to explain and illustrate it to her youthful audience.

Addressing her eldest son, a bright, active boy of twelve summers, she
asked, "Walter, what is the chief end of man?"

In a low but distinct voice, he replied, "Man's chief end is to glorify
God and to enjoy him forever."

"What is the meaning of chief end?"

"Principal object or business."

"Yes; Isabelle is just beginning to attend school. Can you tell me,
Helen, what her chief end is while there?"

"To learn to read and spell."

"I learn geography, too," lisped the little one, "and can tell which is
my right hand, and which is my left hand."

Mrs. Dermott and the children smiled, while she continued: "If Isabelle
should go to school some day, and spend all her time in whispering or
drawing pictures on her slate, what would be her chief end?"

"To play."

"Yes. She would be like a great many men, women, and children, whom God
has sent into the world to glorify him, but who pass their whole lives
in seeking their own pleasure. Would that be right?"

"No, mamma. It would be very wicked."

"The great object, business, or end, then, for which mankind were sent
into the world, is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. How can
little children glorify God?"

"If they love him and keep his commands," replied Anna, seriously.

"How can little children show that they love God, and that their chief
end is to glorify him?"

Anna blushed, and glanced at Walter, who replied for her. "If they
are serious and devout in church and Sabbath school. If they listen
attentively to what their teachers say about God, and are not thinking
about their plays, toys, or fine clothes, but are trying to learn how
to please him, I think that would be glorifying God."

"Yes, my dear boy," replied Mrs. Dermott, gazing with moistened eyes
upon the flushed, eager countenance of her first-born. "God would
see in that child's heart a desire to attain the chief aim of his
existence, and He would send his Holy Spirit to aid, comfort, and guide
him, and at last would take him to the full enjoyment of himself in
heaven."


"Between two and three thousand years ago," added Mrs. Dermott, "there
lived in Greece a great many wise men, called philosophers. These were
divided into numerous sects, as Christian people now are into different
denominations. The search of all these was for the highest good, or
'the chief end' of man. One sect claimed it was to be found in ease;
another in pleasure; and still another in fame and renown. Some claimed
the greatest good consisted in luxurious meats and drinks; some placed
it in one thing, some in another. Their wisdom was but folly. None of
them attained the true idea which God in the Bible has revealed to
little children, and which this answer of the Catechism so beautifully
and summarily expresses. But an incident will explain my meaning.

"There once lived a sweet little girl who was noticed by her mother to
go to her chamber many times in a day; and, curious to know what led
her there, the lady softly followed. As she approached the door, she
heard the voice of her child talking, as she supposed, with some one
within; but listening more attentively, she perceived that Lotty was
asking her heavenly Father to bless her.

"With a grateful, rejoicing heart, the mother returned to the parlor,
where Lotty soon followed, and, taking up her doll, resumed her play.
She dressed and undressed the baby, tried on a little bonnet and sack
given her by her aunt, all the while closely watched by her mother, who
soon saw her place Dolly safely in the tiny bed, and, having tucked her
in, retire to her chamber again. Surprised and delighted, Mrs. Kidder
only waited for her child to return to her play, before she questioned
her as to the cause of her frequent absence.

"'Come here, Lotty,' she said, affectionately, as the little girl made
her appearance.

"'May Dolly come too, mamma?'

"'Yes, dear.'

"'Why do you leave your play so often?'

"'O mamma, I love God so!' was the touching reply, as, with her sweet
face flushed with holy joy, she turned to gaze into her mother's
countenance. 'Every time I go into my room, it seems just as if God was
glad; and he makes my heart so warm. I think he loves to have me pray
to him.'

"For two years more Lotty was spared to her father and mother, and all
the time the love of God was growing in her heart. It was the whole
business of her life to love, honor, and glorify him. By and by her
heavenly Father called her to his mansion above the skies, where she
will enjoy his love and presence forever and ever.

"When the physician, who had been hastily summoned, told her weeping
mother that a few hours would terminate her life, Lotty, though
suffering acutely, pressed her little hands together, exclaiming, 'O,
I long to be there. I shall see my dear Saviour, and live with him
forever. Don't cry, mamma,' she pleaded, as her mother's tears flowed
afresh. 'Jesus has forgiven all my sins, and he will take care of me. I
will ask him to send for you and papa; and then we'll sing praises to
him forever and ever.'"

This little girl glorified and enjoyed God.



CHAPTER II.

THE BIBLE; OR, THE SAILOR BOY.


QUESTION II. _What rule hath God given to direct us how we may glorify
and enjoy him?_

ANSWER. The word of God, which is contained in the Scriptures of the
Old and New Testaments, is the only rule to direct us how we may
glorify and enjoy him.

                              ——————

ANNA SHERWIN was an orphan child of Mrs. Dermott's deceased brother.
For a year she had been residing in the family of her aunt, who treated
her with all the tenderness which she manifested for her own children.
With the buoyancy natural to youth, Anna had ceased to mourn her
parents' loss, though she loved to call to mind their instructions, and
to govern her conduct as she thought would please them.

With the enthusiasm of a child, she looked forward to "the
catechising," as her cousins had styled the teaching of their mother,
and was the first to take her seat and to be in readiness for the
second question. When the others were in their places, Mrs. Dermott
requested Anna to repeat the answer given at the head of this chapter,
and then asked, "What volume contains the word of God?"

"The Bible, or 'The Book.'"

"How do we know it is the word of God?"

"Because—because—" The little ones looked at each other, but could not
answer the question.

"I will ask another question. How do we know, Walter, that the Shorter
Catechism was written by the Westminster Assembly?"

"Because we have always heard so," replied the boy. "I suppose people
who lived then told their children, and they told theirs, until it has
come down to us."

"I once saw an old gentleman," remarked the mother, "who told me some
interesting circumstances respecting that most remarkable body of men.
His father had told him that his great-great-grandfather was a member
of the Assembly; that he knew and had conversed with those who wrote
the Catechism, and that he had related many interesting facts, which,
with letters and other papers, were now preserved in an antiquarian
library.

"In the same manner we know that the books of the Bible were written by
the men whose names they bear, and can distinctly retrace them to their
authors, both by history and tradition. Besides, God enabled them to
perform many miracles, such as healing the sick, opening the eyes of
the blind, raising the dead to life, to prove that they had received
authority from him. Ha also enabled them to foretell many events
which have since taken place, and thereby has set his seal to their
commission.

"A poor negro was once asked, 'What reasons have you for believing the
Bible to be the word of God?'

"'Me have no reasons, massa,' was the good man's artless reply. 'Me
want no reasons. Me read the precious book, and me feel it in here,'
putting his hand upon his heart. 'Me know God wrote it for poor
creatures just like me.'

"The Bible carries its own arguments with it. Its writers often refer
to this internal evidence of its truth. 'He that believeth shall know
of the doctrine.' 'Be ye transformed by the renewing of your minds,
that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable, and perfect will of
God.'

"Multitudes have in this way learned the divine truth and power of the
Holy Scriptures.

"Many years ago I read of a pious widow who lived in the northern part
of England. She had one son. This boy, whose name was Charles, from
being her pet and darling, became her scourge and her cross. He loved
bad company, and at length declared his intention of going to sea. His
mother, with many tears and sad forebodings, bade him farewell; but as
she did so, she put into his hand a New Testament inscribed with her
name and his own, solemnly and tenderly entreating that he would keep
it and read it for her sake. Year after year elapsed, bearing to heaven
the record of her prayers and tears, and still no tidings of her boy!

"At length her maternal anxiety could brook no longer delay. She set
out alone for London, where she went about making inquiries concerning
the vessel in which Charles had sailed. She one day mot a sea captain,
who told her the ship had been wrecked long before, adding, 'They were
a wicked crew, especially a cabin boy by the name of Charles—. He was
so depraved and profligate, that it were a good thing if he and all
like him were at the bottom of the sea.'

"Pierced to her inmost soul, this unhappy mother withdrew from the
house, and hastened to her retired home. The language of her heart was,
'I shall go down to the grave mourning for my son.'

"Some years elapsed, when one night, a half-naked sailor knocked at
her door to ask relief. He had seen great perils in the deep, had been
several times wrecked, but, said he, 'I have never been so dreadfully
destitute as I was some years back, when I and a fine young gentleman
were the only ones saved of a whole ship's crew. We were cast upon
a desert island, where, after seven days, I closed his eyes. Poor
fellow! I never shall forget him;' And here the tears stole down his
weather-beaten cheeks.

"'He read day and night,' continued the sailor, 'in a little book which
he said his mother gave him, and which was the only thing he saved from
the wreck. It was his companion every moment. He wept for his sins; he
prayed; he kissed the volume; he talked of nothing but this book and
his mother; and when he died, he gave it to me, with many thanks for my
poor services.

"'There, Jack,' said he, 'take this book, and keep it and read it, and
may God bless you; it's all I've got.'

"And then he clasped my hand, and died in peace."

"'Is this all true?' said the trembling, astonished mother, hope
whispering to her heart that the dying youth was her own Charles.

"'Yes, madam, every word of it.' And then, dragging from his ragged
jacket a little book, much tattered and time-worn, he held it up,
exclaiming, 'And here's the very book too.'

"She seized it, descried her own handwriting, and beheld the name of
her son coupled with her own upon the fly leaf. She gazed, she read,
she wept, she rejoiced. She seemed to hear a voice saying, 'Thy son
liveth;' and from her heart she was ready to exclaim, 'Now, Lord,
lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy
salvation.'

"'Will you part with that book, my honest fellow?' said she, anxious to
possess the precious relic.

"'No, madam,' was the answer, 'not for any money—not for all the world.
He gave it to me with his dying hand. I have more than once lost my all
since I got it, without losing this treasure, the truths of which have,
I hope, been blessed to my soul; and I will never part with it till I
part with the breath out of my body.'

"The Bible," continued Mrs. Dermott, "has this transforming power,
because holy men wrote it as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. God
put into their hearts what they wrote, and he renders it effectual to
our salvation. What other names do we sometimes give to the Bible?"

"The Scriptures, or Testaments," replied Walter, quickly.

"A testament is a will or writing, such as persons leave to tell what
they wish to have done with their property after their death. How many
Testaments are there in the Bible, Helen?"

"Two; the Old Testament and the New Testament."

"Do you see why these two portions of the Bible are called Testaments?"

"No, mamma."

"It is because in them God has revealed to us his will. In them he
tells who shall be heirs to his vast possessions."

"I should think every body would want to read them, then," exclaimed
Walter in an animated tone.

"Yes, my son. If a book were now to be published, telling how any one
who wished might inherit a crown, and be heir to an immense estate,
how eagerly would the volume be perused! And how exactly would the
directions be followed. But here is a book which God has given as a
rule or guide to lead us to heaven, where a crown of glory, which
cannot fade, is awaiting us, and where we may be co-heirs with Christ
to an eternal and immortal inheritance. Alas, that so many should
neglect it!"


"A little boy was once sent by his mother to a small shop to buy a bar
of soap. The shopwoman took it from the shelf, and having received the
money from the child, took a thick book from the floor, and was just
about to tear out some of the leaves, when the boy exclaimed, 'Is not
that the Bible?'

"'Yes; but what of that?'

"'O, do not tear the Bible! It is so precious.'

"'Pshaw! It is only fit for wrapping paper.'

"'O, will you not give it to me?'

"'Yes, if you will give me its weight in waste paper.'

"Leaving his soap, the boy ran swiftly home, and rushing up to his
mother, exclaimed, 'O mother, the shopwoman will give me a Bible, a
whole Bible, if I can get as much waste paper as it will weigh.'

"With his mother's consent, he then searched the house; but the
quantity he obtained was far too scanty for him to procure the prize.
Determined, however, not to give up, he went round among the neighbors,
told them his story, and soon obtained a supply. He then carried it to
the shopwoman, and watched her with breathless interest as she placed
the precious Bible in one scale and the old newspapers in the other,
gave a bound of joy as he saw the former was more than balanced by the
latter, and received the precious volume in his arms.

"'It is my own Bible. O, what a treasure!' he exclaimed, pressing it
repeatedly to his breast.

"We can easily imagine with what delight the dear boy sat down to
peruse the sacred pages; how joyfully he adopted it as the lamp to his
feet and the light to his path, as his only rule of faith and practice."



CHAPTER III.

THE DIVINE RULE; OR, AOLA.


QUESTION III. _What do the Scriptures principally teach?_

ANSWER. The Scriptures principally teach what man is to believe
concerning God, and what duty God requires of man.

                              ——————

MR. DERMOTT was the wife of a merchant residing in the suburbs of a
large city. Her husband was frequently called from home for several
months together; and she, in accordance with his wishes, had taken
up the doctrines and duties of Christian faith, with the endeavor to
render them both simple and attractive to her children. Thus far her
efforts had been attended with unusual success, and the little ones
looked forward with impatience for the evening when the lessons should
be continued.

All being in their places, and the answer repeated with which this
chapter commences, the lady inquired, "Did you notice, Walter, into how
many parts the teachings of Scripture are divided in this answer?"

After a moment's hesitation, the boy replied, "Into two parts: what we
are to believe, and what we are to do."

"Very well, my dear. In the first place, the Bible teaches us to
believe; or it presupposes the existence of God, the Creator of all
things. He made the world and all that is therein; the sun to rule the
day, and the moon and stars to rule the night. The beasts of the field,
the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea, even the little insects
which swarm in the air, were all fashioned by his forming hand.

"But what is of more importance to us than all else, is the fact
contained in Scripture, that God sent his only Son to provide a way of
salvation for poor, guilty sinners.

"This is what we are to believe concerning God. The duties required
of us are comprehensively and beautifully summed up in the ten
commandments. These relate both to our duties toward God and our duties
toward our follow-creatures.

"The Bible teaches little children to whom they are indebted for life
and all that makes life pleasant, and it also teaches them to obey
their parents, and how to treat each other."

"The Bible says, 'Little children, love one another,'" urged Helen,
speaking quickly; "now, mother, will you tell us a story?"

Mrs. Dermott smilingly assented, and commenced. "Far, far away among
the Rocky Mountains, many hundred miles beyond where the foot of
the white man had ever trod, there once lived an Indian maiden, the
daughter of a sachem. She married one of the young warriors of her
tribe, and for many years followed him from one hunting field to
another, her heart kept warm by her love for him and for her papooses.
This is the Indian name for children, of which she had four.

"At length her husband grew sick, and, according to the custom of
the poor, deluded tribe, Nola presented offerings to their idols in
his behalf. But, notwithstanding her sacrifices and her prayers, the
warrior grew rapidly worse, and soon died.

"Aola was now a widow, and had no one to draw the bow for her, except
her eldest son. In a few months, he returned hurriedly from the chase
to his mother's wigwam, and throwing himself upon his father's hunting
robe, said, 'I am sick.'

"'This time,' said Aola, 'I will surely appease the wrath of our gods.'

"She deprived herself of many comforts to offer more costly sacrifices;
but all in vain: her first-born soon breathed his last.

"Before twelve moons had waxed and waned, two more dear ones, precious
remembrances of her past joys, had sickened, and in spite of her
agonizing prayers to the idols, had passed forever from her sight.

"At length her sweet little Lola, who, in her repeated trials, had
entwined herself closer and closer to her heart, grew wan and pale,
like the others who had preceded it to the world of spirits. Aola, in
her anguish, beat her breast. Suddenly she grew more calm, and, taking
Lola in her arms, hastened to a huge pine tree near her wigwam. She
seated herself on a little mound at the foot of the tree, and began to
look into her own heart."

[Illustration: "I will pray to the God of my Lola."]

"'Aola,' she asked herself, 'where is the God who gave you your
papoose?'

"She gazed far into the deep, dark forest, then up toward the bright
blue sky, and a voice whispered to her soul, 'I am God, who made the
heavens and the earth. Plead your cause with me.'

"With streaming eyes Aola replied, 'I will no longer bow down to the
gods who would not hear my prayers. I will pray to the God of my Lola.'

"She then laid her babe upon the soft grass at her feet, and
prostrating herself upon her knees, with her lips touching the ground,
her cries and her supplications ascended to the Most High. He heard her
prayer; and when Aola returned to her wigwam, it was with a smile of
hope upon her lip.

"Fourteen years later, when Mr. Kingsbury, one of the first
missionaries to the Indians, reached her tribe, and began to talk about
the white man's God, Aola, catching her child by the hand, led her to
the good man, exclaiming, in her native language, 'White man's God my
God, Lola's God too.' And then began to tell him that for fourteen
years she had prayed to the good Being who had whispered to her heart,
and who had saved the life of her child.

"A station was subsequently established at that place, and Aola was
received into the Christian church. Lola was taught to read the Bible;
and O, how eagerly did her mother drink in the precious words which
revealed to her so fully the greatness and goodness of that gracious
Being, whom, not knowing, she had loved!

"But her history is very unlike that of most of the heathen. It teaches
us of what the power of conscience and the light of nature are capable,
and confirms the words of the apostle:

   "'The invisible things of God, from the creation of the world, are
 clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his
 eternal power and Godhead; so that they are without excuse.'

"The multitude of them have 'changed the glory of the uncorruptible God
into an image made like to corruptible man, to birds, and four-footed
beasts, and creeping things.' They need the Bible to teach them what
they ought to believe concerning God, and what duty God requires of
them."



CHAPTER IV.

THE CHARACTER OF GOD; OR, PRAYER IN THE ASSEMBLY.


QUESTION IV. _What is God?_

ANSWER. God is a Spirit, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in his
being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth.

                              ——————

ISABELLE DERMOTT was a lovely child. She had just attained her seventh
year. From her birth she had occasioned her parents groat solicitude
on account of the peculiar delicacy of her constitution. Her mind was
precocious; and until within a few months, she had been withheld from
mental labor. Now, however, she had commenced attending school, and was
advancing rapidly in her studies.

When the question for the day had been asked and answered, Mrs. Dermott
began the lesson by the inquiry,—

"Anna, what is that within you which thinks and feels?"

"My soul."

"Yes, your soul, or spirit. Can we see it?"

"No, mamma," replied Helen, gravely.

"Do you remember that dreadful thunder shower last summer, when
Isabelle was so much alarmed?"

"I do!" "And I!" "And I!" called out one and another.

"You know, Helen, I told you to look for the next flash of lightning.
It came as I was speaking, and almost blinded you. The air was full of
electricity, which causes the lightning; but you could not see it until
it flashed. Just so it is with God, who is a Spirit. He is everywhere,
and makes himself known by what he does. He is in the air we breathe,
in the sunshine and in the storm, in the merry warbling of the birds,
in the pleasant gurgling of the brooks, in the sighing of the forest,
and in the blooming of the tiniest flower. It is God who swells the
buds in the spring, clothes the trees with foliage, forms and ripens
the pleasant fruit, causes the sun to shine, and the rain to fall.

   "'He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the
 service of man . . . The young lions roar after their prey, and seek
 their meat from God.'

"Can you tell me, Walter, the meaning of the word infinite?"

"Yes, mamma; father explained it to me. God is infinite because he
extends through all space, and without limit."

Mrs. Dermott rose, and drawing up the window curtain, called her young
audience to view the beautiful stars which spangled the sky. Fixing
their attention upon one brighter than the rest, she said, "Isabelle,
does not that seem a great way off?"

"O, yes, mamma."

"Well, if you could approach it, and look out just as far beyond, you
would only be looking upon the beginning of the infinite space filled
by God.

"Eternal means the same with regard to time as infinite does with
regard to space. When we have lived hundreds of thousands of years in
the eternal world, we shall be not one minute nearer the end of our
existence. God never began to live, and he never will cease to live.

"Helen, the other day you were complaining that the rules or
regulations of your school were so often changed that you could
not remember them. You can never complain thus of God, for he is
unchangeable. The apostle James says,—

   "'Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh
 down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither
 shadow of turning.'

"God says of himself,—

   "'I am the Lord; I change not.'

"What a wonderful blessing is this attribute of God! With what
certainty we can rely upon his promises! We can be sure that his
designs of mercy toward the children of men will never, never fail.

"We learn by this answer that God is without bounds as to space, and as
to time, never varying in himself, nor in the counsels of his mind.

"Can you tell me, Walter, the meaning of the word wisdom?"

"I suppose it means very skilful, and able to do a great many things."

"Yes, Solomon says,—

   "'The Lord by wisdom hath founded the earth.'

"God is infinite not only in wisdom, but also in power. He can not only
devise wonderful things, but he can accomplish whatever he pleases.
Luke, in his Gospel, says of the Jews,—

   "'And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God.'

"They had been witnessing the miracles he had wrought, and their hearts
were filled with wonder and awe.

"Anna, can you think of any thing which we call holy?"

Anna hesitated a moment, and then replied, "The Sabbath is holy,
because it is God's day."

"God is unchangeable in holiness.

   "'Who is like thee, glorious in holiness?'

"He is also immutable in justice.

   "'Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne.'

"He is infinite, eternal, and unchangeable, also, in goodness and truth.

   "'The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord.'

   "'Just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.'"


"In 1643, the Westminster Assembly, of one hundred and fifty-one
laymen and divines, met by order of Parliament. One committee of
that body framed a Catechism which expresses the common faith of the
reformed churches, and is adapted to general use. When they came to the
question, 'What is God?' an awful solemnity fell upon them. Who could
venture to express in words the momentous truth? All shrunk from the
too sacred idea.

"At length it was resolved, as an expression of the committee's deep
humility, that the youngest member should make the first attempt. He
consented, but begged that the brethren would first unite with him in
prayer for divine enlightenment. Then, in slow and solemn accents, he
thus began his prayer:

   "'O God! Thou art a spirit, infinite, eternal, unchangeable in thy
 being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth!'

"When he ceased, the first sentence of his prayer was immediately
written down and adopted, as the most perfect answer that could be
conceived; as, indeed, in a very sacred sense, God's own answer,
descriptive of himself."



CHAPTER V.

THE UNITY OF GOD; OR, THE MISSION HOUSE.


QUESTION V. _Are there more Gods than one?_

ANSWER. There is but one only, the living and true God.

                              ——————

BEFORE the evening on which the next lesson of the Catechism occurred,
Mr. Dermott unexpectedly returned home. He was welcomed by the children
with almost boisterous affection.

And after relating many incidents which had occurred during his
absence, Helen exclaimed, "O papa, we do have such nice times at
the catechising! I never liked the Catechism before, because I did
not understand the meaning of the words. But now you may ask me any
question that you like. I mean about those mother has explained to us."

"Indeed!" cried Mr. Dermott, with an arch smile. "I must obtain
permission to join this wonderful class; for I confess there is much
that I could learn about these sublime truths. What is the lesson for
to-night?"

"We don't have to look out any of the references, as we did at the
Sabbath school," exclaimed Walter, earnestly. "We only commit the
answer to the question; and when it's Belle's turn, mother lets her
read it from the book."

Helen, having easily obtained permission for her father to be present,
gayly seated him between Isabelle and herself, and clasping his hands
affectionately, informed her mother they were ready for her to commence.

Anna having repeated the answer to the question in course, Mrs. Dermott
asked, "What are the gods of the heathen called?"

"O mamma!" cried Isabelle. "Ask father first; he is the oldest!"

The lady smilingly nodded assent, and Mr. Dermott replied, "I think it
is the prophet Jeremiah who calls them idols and images."

"Of what, Walter, do the heathen make their idols?"

"Of wood and stone."

"That great one, we saw at the Mission House was made of gold," cried
Helen, "and another was made of some old straw, stuck all over with
elegant red feathers. Some of them were worn off, and I peeped inside.
It was an ugly-looking thing."

"Here is an idol made of brass," added Mrs. Dermott, rising and taking
from the mantel a small calf, about an inch in length. "Dreadful as
it may seem, this little image has had a human sacrifice offered to
it. This was afterward given up to the missionaries, who sent it to
me. Probably this was made in imitation of the golden calf which the
Israelites worshipped; the sight of which caused Moses such wrath that
he threw down the tables of stone upon which the commandments were
written, and broke them."

"Beside images of every imaginable shape and size," remarked the
gentleman, "the poor deluded heathen worship many objects in nature,
such as the sun and moon, very many kinds of animals—cows, dogs,
crocodiles, and even mice. When I was in India, I saw the Hindoos
engaged in offering sacrifices to the sun. Early in the morning, men,
women, and children gathered together in an open field, carrying
fruits, sweetmeats, pigeons, kids, &c. These were all set in a row,
and a small pot of water placed by each person's offering, around the
edge of which they wove a kind of wreath in imitation of the sun. They
also had a small vessel of coals for incense, and a lamp, which was
kept burning all day, by each sacrifice. At sunrise they walked four
times around the whole row of offerings, with the smoking censers on
their heads; after this they returned to their former station, where,
I was informed, they stood erect all day, occasionally throwing a
little incense into the fire, but without tasting food. About sunset,
when I was told their ceremonies would be concluded, I returned. They
again took their censers, and walked three times around the field. The
pigeons were thrown into the air, and scrambled after for food, when
each one threw his lamp away, and hastened home. This was merely a
senseless and foolish idolatry. The next day one of the missionaries
invited me to the hook swinging, in which the deluded Hindoos had iron
hooks fastened into the flesh of their backs, and swung through the
air, to appease the wrath of their gods. I had no heart to witness so
cruel an exhibition. But no matter where I went, in every part of India
there were idols of wood, stone, and clay; some ornamented with silver
and gold, others in forms the most hideous and repulsive."

"How can they be so silly as to worship idols?" inquired the impulsive
Helen. "I stuck a pin through that old feather god, and it could feel
nothing; it only kept grinning with its two rows of ugly teeth; and I
might have screamed in its ears all day, it could never have heard me."

The children smiled, but Mrs. Dermott said, gravely, "In contrast with
these senseless images, which have eyes, ears, and hands, but can
neither see, hear, nor dispense favors, how great and glorious appears
the one living and true God, whose throne is in the heavens, but who is
so condescending that he stoops to listen to the earnest prayer of the
humblest child!"

"Walter," inquired Mr. Dermott, "is there no duty we owe these poor
heathen?"

"Yes, sir; we ought to send Bibles and missionaries to teach them about
our God; and then they would throw away their idols, as the Sandwich
Islanders did."

"Yes, my child; and we ought to pray for them, that their hearts may be
enlightened to see the folly of their worship."

"I pray for the heathen every night," faltered Isabelle, with tearful
eyes, "and I mean to save all my pennies to send them Bibles."

"A missionary," said Mr. Dermott, "once gave an account of a poor man
who came into his house. 'When he had sat down, he took up a book of
missions which lay upon the table, in which were plates of heathen
idols, hideous and ugly in their appearance.'

"'What game is this?' he asked my daughter.

"'They are not game,' replied the little girl; 'there are nations who
worship those things.'

"'O,' said he, 'how you tell fibs!'

"'No, I am not telling fibs. My mamma said so, and she does not tell
fibs.'

"'Well,' he said again, 'tell me what games they are.'

"'They are things that people worship, just as we worship Jehovah and
Jesus. If you do not believe it, go and ask papa.'

"He then came to me, and said, 'Look at that!' And repeated what Mary
had told him. 'Is it true?' he asked.

"'It is,' was the reply.

"Having gazed at me for a moment, in astonishment, he said, 'I know you
do not lie; but how can it be?'

"And laying the book down upon a piece of timber I was planing, he
looked at it, putting his hands to both sides of his head, and waving
it backward and forward.

"Presently he asked, 'Have those people that make these things of wood
and stone, heads like me?'

"'Yes.'

"'Have they got legs?'

"'Yes.'

"'Can they talk and think? Can they explain a difficult thing? Can they
speak in a public meeting, like our senators?'

"'Yes.'

"'Then never say that our people are foolish or ignorant.'

"Taking from his neck a whistle, made of ivory, and carved with some
device, perhaps a man's face, he nodded his head to it in a most solemn
manner, and said, 'If my people should see me worshipping my whistle,
which looks much better than those monsters, they would think I was
mad. They would throw me over a precipice, and cover me with stones.'"



CHAPTER VI.

THE GODHEAD; OR, THE SILENCED INFIDEL.


QUESTION VI. _How many persons are there in the Godhead?_

ANSWER. There are three persons in the Godhead—the Father, the Son, and
the Holy Ghost; and these three are one God, the same in substance,
equal in power and glory.

                              ——————

"I DON'T believe this lesson will be as interesting as the last,"
whispered Helen to her cousin Anna, as they sat together an hour or two
before the exercise commenced.

"I'm sure I can never understand about the Godhead. I hope mother will
tell us a good, long story."

"O, I dare say we shall understand it," replied Anna, promptly. "Aunty
makes it so clear and plain; and then uncle will be here too. What a
dreadful thing it is to worship idols, as he saw the poor heathen in
India!"

"Children, are you ready for the lesson," called out Mr. Dermott,
taking a seat near the fire.

The mother smiled as she saw how eagerly her young audience arranged
themselves in order, and, having listened to a correct answer of the
question in course, asked, "Anna, what name do we commonly give to the
Son of God?"

"Jesus Christ."

"Can you think of no other?"

"Yes, ma'am; Saviour and Redeemer."

"And what name do we generally apply to the Holy Ghost?"

"The Spirit—the Holy Spirit," responded Walter.

"That is right; and the Bible teaches us that God the Father, God the
Son, and God the Holy Spirit, are three persons, not separate, but
united in one God, and that they are equal in substance or nature, in
power and glory. What is the union of these three persons called?"

The children not being able to reply, Mr. Dermott answered, "The
Godhead."

"We cannot understand how these three distinct persons can be one God,"
continued the lady; "but neither can we understand a thousandth part
of what we see every day, and believe to be true. For instance, we do
not know, when an acorn is put into the ground, how a little sapling
springs up, which, in due time, becomes a tall, giant oak; nor why, on
the same stalk, a green leaf and a red rose should grow; neither can we
fully understand the framework of our bodies, the curious mechanism of
the arteries, and veins, and nerves; nor the structure of our minds;
how we can think, and weep, and rejoice; how we can call to mind events
long passed. Still less can we understand the silken cord which unites
the body and soul. But we do not hesitate to believe that these things
are so.

"Now, in the word of God we are expressly taught that 'the Lord our God
is one God;' and we are also taught that Jesus Christ is God.

   "'Unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever; a
 sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.'

"Then, in the sad story of Ananias and Sapphira, Peter said to the
former,—

   "'Why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost. Thou
 hast not lied unto men, but unto God.'

"The Bible abounds in passages teaching this doctrine, such as these:
Christ says,—

   "'I and my Father are one.'

"Paul writes to the Philippians,—

   "'Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus; who, being
 in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God.'

   "'God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is
 above every name, that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is
 Lord, to the glory of God the Father.'"

"And it is equally explicit with reference to the Holy Ghost," added
Mr. Dermott. "John says,—

   "'There are three that bear record in heaven,—the Father, the Word,
 and the Holy Ghost,—and these three are one.'

"He is called 'the Comforter, who will teach all things,' knowing 'the
mind of God,' preserving and governing the world."

After a moment's pause, the gentleman added, "I remember to have heard
an account of an infidel which well illustrates the point your mother
has explained, that though we cannot understand, we must believe
spiritual and experimental truths. This infidel was sitting with many
others in a public room belonging to a hotel. At length he began to
talk upon the absurdities of the Christian religion, quoting these
expressions—,'I and my Father are one;' 'I in them and thou in me;' and
'three persons,' 'in one God.' Finding his auditors were not disposed
to applaud his blasphemy, he turned to one gentleman and said, with an
oath, 'Do you believe such nonsense?'

"'Tell me,' asked the gentleman, in reply, 'how that candle burns.'

"'Why,' answered he, 'the tallow, the cotton, and the atmospheric air
produce the light.'

"'Then they make one light, do they not?'

"'Yes.'

"'Will you tell me how they are one in the other, how the three unite
and form but one light?'

"'No, I cannot.'

"'But you believe it?'

"He could not say he did not.

"The company all smiled at the man's inconsistency and folly; and the
conversation was changed. So, my dear children, if you believe only
what you can understand, and can explain, you may as well part with
your senses, as you are surrounded by the wonderful works of God, whose
ways are past finding out."

   "Jehovah!—Father, Spirit, Son!
    Eternal Godhead! Three in One!
    Before Thy throne we sinners bend;
    Grace, pardon, life, to us extend."



CHAPTER VII.

THE PURPOSE OF GOD; OR, THE NEW HOUSE.


QUESTION VII. _What are the decrees of God?_

ANSWER. The decrees of God are his eternal purpose, according to the
counsel of his will, whereby, for his own glory, he hath foreordained
whatsoever comes to pass.

                              ——————

A FEW days succeeding the last lesson, Mr. Dermott received letters
which rendered it necessary for him to leave home sooner than he had
anticipated. His wife keenly regretted this, as, aside from the great
pleasure she experienced in his society, she had been so much assisted
by him in the catechisings. As he must leave two days before the
evening for another lesson, it was proposed by the children that the
exercise should be anticipated that length of time; and Mrs. Dermott
requested him to assume the character of teacher for the occasion. This
she would at all times have preferred him to do; but he thought her
gifted with a peculiar tact at imparting instruction; and then he was
so liable to be called away.

It was Isabelle's turn to answer the question, but she begged her
mother, who sat by her side, to do it for her; when Mr. Dermott
inquired, "Wife, where is the plan of our new house?"

"In the secretary. Walter, pass it to your father."

The boy opened wide his eyes with astonishment, but immediately obeyed,
while little Belle whispered to her mother, "Shan't we have any story,
then?"

"I think so, my dear; but hear what papa is saying."

"Who drew this plan, Walter?"

"I heard you say, sir, that Mr. Bond, the architect, did, and that you
gave him fifty dollars for doing it."

"Yes, and it was cheap enough too; a very nice house it is; and how
comfortable we have been since we moved into it! I remember well how
pleased I was when he showed me this plan; and that after your mother
and I had passed a whole evening in carefully examining every part, I
determined, or purposed, that my house should be like it."

The children had gathered around their father, though wondering not a
little that he had so entirely forgotten their lesson.

"See here," added the gentleman, turning the large sheet of stiff
paper, at which they had been looking. "Here is what is called a
framing plan, so that the carpenters may know, before they buy their
lumber, exactly how much they shall need, and of what size. And here at
the corner is a little sketch of the pillars to support the piazza, and
the form of the brackets that go around the coving."

"I heard the carpenters say," exclaimed Walter, "that it was a great
help to have such a plan, and prevented much misunderstanding and
unkind feeling; for often the carpenter will understand the contract
one way, and his employer quite another; and he wished every man, who
was going to build a house, would have an exact framing plan, as well
as a profile of the rooms."

"Yes, it is very important," replied the gentleman. "The house we
rented while ours was building, is an illustration of the folly of not
having a plan. Mr. Longworth wished to build a house. He wanted one
that would look handsomely outside; but his own family was small, and
so he concluded to make a building with two tenements. He consulted Mr.
Bond about it, and found that an exact plan of the building, and of
framing, with specifications, would cost him sixty-five dollars. It was
to be larger than mine. Sixty-five dollars was quite too much money, he
thought, to pay for the plan of a house, when he could make one just as
well himself. I told him he would find it would be a saving of money in
the end. But he thought otherwise, and, having engaged the carpenters,
set them to work.

"As I was to have the tenement when it was ready, I felt an interest
to watch the job. The workmen knew that they were to put up a frame
forty-four feet front and forty deep; and so far they went on tolerably
well, though even here there were some hard words about the size of
timbers, &c. But after that, every thing went 'at sixes and sevens,'
as old Mr. Carter used to say. The men would go on from day to day,
receiving their directions from Mr. Longworth; but as he was a hatter,
and not a mechanic, he did not make his plans aright, and the men used
often to pull down one day what they had built up the preceding.

"You know the consequences, for we all suffered from living in an
ill-contrived, sham-built house; and we were glad enough to get away
from it. Now, Mr. Longworth cannot rent it at all; and he told me, a
few days since, that if he had followed my advice, and let Mr. Bond
make a plan, he should have been a thousand dollars better off than he
is at present.

"Now, children, I am going to apply this to your lesson. More than six
thousand years ago, before God had said,—

   "'Let there be light, and there was light.'—

"He took counsel of himself, and determined to create a world; and,
first of all, he made a plan, or, as the Catechism calls it, a decree.
There should be in the new world a great light for the day, called the
sun, and a lesser light for the night, called the moon. There should be
trees, and fruits, and flowers, each in their season. There should be
beasts, and birds, and fishes, and insects. He also determined to make
a man and woman, with souls to think and feel. These would be at the
head of a race of beings capable of worshipping him, and enjoying him
forever. If I lived a hundred years, and talked all the time, I could
not begin to tell you all the little minutiæ of God's plan, or decree,
about his new world.

"Now, I can only give a very imperfect outline. God decreed, or
planned, or determined, that when Adam was formed, he should be a
holy being; but as he wished to try him, and see whether he would
obey God's holy laws, he decreed that Satan should tempt him to eat
the forbidden fruit; and, as he knew that neither Adam nor Eve would
resist the temptation, but would fall from holiness to sin, he formed a
wonderful plan of redemption through his own Son, who should suffer for
the guilty race, that those who accepted him as their ransom, might be
saved, and, at length restored to holiness and happiness.

"God is a being of wondrous power, and he knew exactly who would love
this dear Saviour whom he had sent into the world. He knew from all
eternity that there would be this catechising this evening, and what
would be the thoughts of each one of our hearts. Yes, he made a plan
of it all, though it seems as insignificant as the planning where a
little screw should go in one of our door handles; and he determined,
or ordained, beforehand,—or foreordained, as the Catechism has it,—that
whatsoever should come to pass should be for his own glory."

"It seems the most blessed thing for us that God did make such a plan,"
remarked Mrs. Dermott, as her husband ceased speaking.

"Yes, indeed, we can see the sad effects of the want of plan in Mr.
Longworth's house; but we cannot conceive the awful results which would
have followed had God been changeable; one day governing the world in
one way, and the next in another way; and we must bless him to all
eternity."

"What does God call this plan?" asked Mrs. Dermott. "I think in the
Bible it is nowhere called a decree."

"No, that word is not used. In Proverbs it is called God's counsel.

   "'The counsel of the Lord, that shall stand.'

"In Paul's Epistle to the Ephesians, he calls the plan of God his
purpose.

   "'According to the eternal purpose, which he purposed in Christ
 Jesus our Lord.'

"In Romans it is called foreknowledge and predestination.

   "'For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed
 to the image of his Son, that he might be the first-born among many
 brethren. Moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he also called; and
 whom he called, them he also justified; and whom he justified, them he
 also glorified.'"



CHAPTER VIII.

EXECUTION OF GOD'S PURPOSE; OR, THE POOR MINISTER.


QUESTION VIII. _How doth God execute his decrees?_

ANSWER. God executeth his decrees in the works of creation and
providence.

                              ——————

AFTER being absent three days, Mr. Dermott wrote his wife that he hoped
to be with them before the close of the week, and if they chose to put
off the catechising until Saturday night, he should be most happy to go
through the exercise with them. When the lady read the letter to the
children, they unanimously requested that the lesson be postponed until
their father returned.

Mrs. Dermott was much pleased to see that the questions which had
been explained were frequently talked of during the day, and the
illustrations repeated. The account of little Lotty, and of the boy who
prized his Bible, were commented upon again and again.

Saturday evening arrived, and great was the disappointment that their
father had not yet returned. It was now quite dark, and as Ruth was
bringing in the tea, their mother called them to drop the curtains, and
take their places at the table. They were scarcely seated, however,
when they heard a firm step on the piazza, and all sprang toward the
door to welcome the traveller.

"You see I have kept my word," he said, as an hour later they were
seated around the cheerful fire. "We have another lesson on the
decrees, or plan, of God; and I wished to study it with you. Are we
sure that God's plan will not fail?"

"Yes, sir," cried Helen.

"Why so? I made a plan of this house, but I might have died long before
it was finished; or I might have changed my mind, and concluded not to
build at all; or I might have lost all my property, and not been able
to finish it."

"But God can't die, nor lose his property," exclaimed Walter; "and in
one of our lessons we learned that he is unchangeable. So we know that
he will act according to his plan, or will do as he planned to do."

"Very true, my son," said his father, affectionately patting his
shoulder. "He will certainly execute his plan or purpose. Is there any
way in which we can learn what his plan, or any part of his plan, is?"

"I should think not, sir," replied the boy.

"But does not the Bible reveal to us his plan for saving sinners?"

Walter blushed as he replied, "Yes, sir; I didn't think of that."

"Yes, the Bible reveals to us the gift of a Saviour.

"To refer once more to my plan. While the building was in progress, I
used to hear men talking with the carpenter, curious to know whether
the house was to have an L, or a piazza, or an observatory. He smiled
pleasantly as he told them to wait and see. We know that God made the
world in six days, and that he executed the work of creation according
to his plan, previously conceived and adopted. He is still carrying on
this work by the creation of human beings.

"God reveals his decree, or purpose, also in his providence, in which
the great plan of redemption may be considered as included. The
choosing of the Israelites to be his peculiar people—their exodus
from Egypt, their rejection of and wicked crucifixion of the Saviour,
are parts of his government, or providence, the leaves of which are
unfolding every hour.

   "'What his soul desireth, even that he doeth.'"


"Nearly a hundred years ago, there was an eminent clergyman by the name
of Thoroughgood. He was an exceedingly pious, amiable man; but during a
persecution, he was imprisoned and cruelly treated. After his release,
he suffered from poverty. One day he and his family were reduced to
their last scanty mouthful of food. The children were hanging about
their mother crying for bread, which she was unable to give them. With
streaming eyes she turned to her husband and asked, 'What shall I do
for my poor children?'

"The good man had been greatly moved by the scene. His chin quivered;
but gazing at his beloved one, he inquired, in a touching voice, 'Can
you not trust in God?'

"Soon after he persuaded his wife to take a walk. A robin was perched
upon a bough singing a merry song. He stopped and gazed at it, saying,
'Let us learn a lesson from this bird, who sings his praises to God and
trusts him, though he knows not where he shall get his next meal. Let
us, my dear wife, trust to the providence of God, who counts us of more
value than many sparrows.'

"As they drew near the house on their return, they heard sounds of
joy, where so lately there had been only cries of distress; and upon
entering, a happy sight awaited them. In the centre of the room, a
table was loaded with provisions sufficient to last for many days,
while Martha, the faithful serving woman, tearfully pointed to the
corner of the room, where stood sack of corn and a bag of flour. The
children could scarcely restrain their joy, as their father gratefully
raised his hands and eyes to heaven, saying, in a trembling voice,
'They who trust in the Lord shall not want any good thing.'

"Thus you see, dear children, it is safe to trust in the providence of
God."



CHAPTER IX.

THE CREATION OF THE WORLD; OR, THE PATENT OFFICE.


QUESTION IX. _What is the work of creation?_

ANSWER. The work of creation is God's making all things out of nothing,
by the word of his power, in the space of six days, and all very good.

                              ——————

EARLY in the week following the return of Mr. Dermott, Mrs. Lang, a
sister of Mrs. Dermott, arrived at their residence to make a short
visit. She was accompanied by her twin daughters, who were near
Walter's age. Thursday was the evening appointed for the catechisings,
and during Mrs. Lang's visit, she so often heard the children refer to
these occasions, as possessing great interest, that she was induced
to accept her sister's urgent invitation, and remain to witness, what
now seemed to her so incomprehensible, how children could be made to
understand the doctrines of the Catechism.

Helen joyfully clapped her hands as Louise and Lucia made known their
mother's decision, and exclaimed, "O, I'm so glad! You'll hear such a
nice story; and then you'll always understand the answer when you've
heard father and mother explain it!"

The little girls thought otherwise, but they wisely said nothing, and
looked forward to the evening, with feelings of curiosity, rather than
with anticipations of pleasure.

Mr. Dermott was still at home, and, at his wife's earnest request, had
consented to act once more in the capacity of teacher. Anna having
passed him the Catechism, and promptly repeated the answer to the
question, he asked, "Who made the world, Isabelle?"

"God."

"Yes, my dear, God made the world and all things that are therein."

The gentleman arose from his seat, and paced the room two or three
times without speaking.

At length he stopped opposite the chair of his sister-in-law, and said,
"That was a delightful winter we passed in Washington together."

"Yes," she replied, in a low voice, as if she were speaking in meeting.

"That was a sensible arrangement."

"To what do you refer?" asked his wife.

"Why, to your plan of being married on the same evening as your
sister, instead of a month in advance, so that we could be together at
Washington during the honeymoon."

The sisters smiled; but Helen asked, rather abruptly, "Papa, have you
forgotten the catechising?"

Mr. Dermott smiled archly, but did not reply to the child. "I recalled
our visit to the capital of our Union, as I have been thinking to-day
of the Patent Office. What a remarkable institution that is!"

"Yes, I was more interested in it than in any other place we visited.
One might spend weeks there with profit."

"Will you please, uncle, to tell us about it some time?" timidly urged
Anna.

"I will tell you now, my dear," he said, patting her head
affectionately. "In the first place, we went to examine the models of
machinery, telegraphs, lightning rods, and agricultural implements.
There were miniature steam engines, cotton gins, spinning gins, weaving
looms, and carding machines. Then there were ploughs, and harrows,
and cultivators, and seed sowers, and hay cutters, and corn shellers,
and churns, and household utensils, together with every conceivable
variety of implement in agriculture, beside a great many things which
seemed to be of no possible use. The room was thronged with visitors,
and there was some difficulty in getting near enough to examine the
various articles. Then we went on to the patented articles for catching
fish, of which there was a great variety; then for trapping game, and
from that to the ordnance department. Here were pistols of every size
and capacity, guns, firelocks, field pieces, and batteries; models of
weapons offensive and defensive.

"As I stood gazing at one article after another, I thought, 'What a
wonderful power there is in the human brain! How it has contrived and
fashioned things, new and old, great and small, curious, ingenious, and
useful, for every conceivable purpose of art or industry.'

"Upon some of these inventions men have labored their whole lives, and
have expended vast fortunes to bring them to that state of perfection
which we here witness. But, after all, what are these models of human
skill, to the wisdom and power of God in the work of creation! These
are made from material already existing. God created the world from
nothing. The inventors of these articles passed, in many cases, their
whole lives in toiling to attain their prize. God spoke the world into
being by the word of his power.

   "'He spake and it was done. He commanded, and it stood fast.'

"Can you tell me, Walter, how many days God was in making the world?"

"Six days."

"For whom did God create all things?"

"I suppose he made them at first for Adam and Eve."

"Solomon says in the Proverbs,—

   "'The Lord hath made all things for himself.'

"Can you tell me for what purpose?"

Walter shook his head, and his father, taking a small Bible from the
table, turned to the first verse of the nineteenth psalm, and gave it
to him to read.

   "'The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth
 his handiwork.'"

"How important, then, that when we view the hills and vales, the moon
and stars shining in their splendor, the trees and flowers, the birds
and beasts, and every other work of creation, we should remember God,
the Maker and Giver of all these blessings, and that our hearts should
flow out toward him in gratitude and praise!"

   "We sing of God, the mighty source
    Of all things, the stupendous force
      On which all things depend;
    From whose right arm, beneath whose eyes,
    All period, power, and enterprise,
      Commence, and reign, and end."



CHAPTER X.

THE CREATION OF MAN; OR, THE WAX DOLL.


QUESTION X. _How did God create man?_

ANSWER. God created man, male and female, after his own image, in
knowledge, righteousness, and holiness, with dominion over his
creatures.

                              ——————

IT so happened that Helen's birthday, which was on the twelfth of
February, occurred on Thursday following her aunt's visit. When she
came down to breakfast in the morning, a high chair, which had in turn
been used by all the children, was drawn up to the table, and in it was
seated a beautiful wax doll. It had long, flaxen ringlets, and blue
eyes, which could be made to open and shut, beautiful red cheeks, a
white neck and arms, and taper fingers. It was dressed in a sky-blue
merino, with a dainty silk apron, with tiny pockets, while its feet
were covered with pink silk stockings and gaiter boots. This was papa's
birthday present to his little daughter; and what a shout of joy rung
through the house, as he took it from the high chair, and placed it in
her arms! There was little breakfast eaten that morning by either of
the children, for Helen's excitement communicated itself to the others,
and the time was consumed in asking and answering questions.

Helen understood now why it was her mother had so often, within a few
days, requested her to play in another room. She was making the dresses
for Dolly, and wished to give her little girl a pleasant surprise.

"O, what a good time we will have!" cried the happy miss, as they rose
from the table. "You shall play with it half the time, Anna, and I'll
take yours. Perhaps mamma will let us take your birthday present of
cups and saucers, and play 'come and see.'"

Her little cousin's cheeks were as rosy, and her smile as bright, as if
the doll had been presented to her.

After Helen had given her father and mother another kiss, and thanked
them for making her so happy, Anna followed her to their chamber,
where, with the little Isabelle, they passed an hour in the happy
sports of childhood.

In the evening, when they were drawn up in a circle around the fire,
Dolly had her seat between the cousins, Isabelle having pulled an
ottoman to her mother's side, where she could see if the beautiful
stranger conducted herself with steadiness and decorum.

"Isabelle," said her father, "what was the name of the first man?"

"Adam."

"What was the name of his wife, Anna?"

"Eve."

"Who was created first?"

"Adam," replied Helen.

"Out of what did God create him?"

"Out of dust," answered Walter.

"In whose image was Adam created, my son?"

"God created man in his own image."

"Over what was he to have dominion?"

"Over all other creatures."

"On what day were they created?"

"The sixth."

"Can you tell me the meaning of the word Adam?"

"No, sir."

"It signifies red earth. All along on the banks of the river, where the
garden of Eden is supposed to have been, the earth is red; and being
created from that, he was called Adam, or the red man. It is said,—

   "'The Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden.'

"I suppose it is hardly possible for us to conceive the luxuriant
beauty of the place.

"It was the sixth day of God's work of creation. The beasts of the
field, the birds of the air, and the fish of the sea, fresh from his
forming hand, had appeared before their Maker, who pronounced them
'very good.' And God said,—

   "'Let us make man in our image,'—

"And behold 'earth into flesh transformed, and clay to man.'

   "'Adam, arise, since I to thee impart
     A spirit warm from my benignant breath
     Arise, arise, first man,
     And joyous let the world
     Embrace its living miniature in thee!'"

       *       *       *       *       *       *

   "'Man, be thou lord of all that now the sun
     Warms, or the ocean laves; impose a name
     On every thing that flies, or runs, or swims.'" *

   * Gio. Battista Andreini, Italian poet, from whom Milton drew for
     his "Paradise Lost."

"'God brought every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air, unto
Adam, to see what he would call them; and whatsoever Adam called every
living creature, that was the name thereof.' 'But for Adam, there was
not found a helpmeet for him.'

"And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and from one
of his ribs made fair woman's lovely form. And Adam awoke from his
sleep, and beheld that 'marvel most sublime.' We can imagine with what
rapture of delight he pressed this new and cherished being to his
breast, exclaiming,—

                          "'O Eve,
   Sole partner and sole part of all these joys,
   Dearer thyself than all.
   Under a tuft of shade, that on a green
   Stood whispering soft, by a fresh fountain's side,
   They sat them down; and to their supper fruits they fell.
   Nectarine fruits, which the compliant boughs
   Yielded them, sidelong as they sat recline.
   On the soft, downy bank damasked with flowers,
   The savory pulp they chew, and in the rind,
   Still as they thirsted, scoop the brimming stream.'"

       *       *       *   "'About them frisking played.
   Sporting the lion ramped, and in his paw
   Dandled the kid: bears, tigers, ounces, pards,
   Gambolled before them; the unwieldy elephant,
   To make them mirth, used all his might, and wreathed
   His lithe proboscis.'" *

   * Milton's "Paradise Lost."

"Thus, dear children, were formed the parents of our race, made in the
image of their Creator, and endowed with knowledge, righteousness, and
holiness. How different would have been our condition had they never
fallen from that high estate!"



CHAPTER XI.

PROVIDENCE; OR, THE ILL-FATED BOAT.


QUESTION XI. _What are God's works of providence?_

ANSWER. God's works of providence are his most holy, wise, and powerful
preserving and governing all his creatures and all their actions.

                              ——————

THE morning of Thursday dawned clear and bright, and at the breakfast
table the children eagerly reminded their father of his promise to
improve the first fine day by teaching them to skate. At the distance
of one quarter of a mile from their house, there was a large pond,
which was now covered with firm, smooth ice. Mr. Dermott told them that
he would endeavor to return from the city to take an early dinner with
them, after which, provided their lessons had been well learned, he
would accompany them to the pond.

Every thing was propitious; the children studied diligently, and, of
course, recited correctly. The weather continued fine, and their father
arrived in ample season for dinner. A merry party that was, consisting
of father, mother, and four happy children; and a delightful afternoon
they passed, filling their lungs with the clear, bracing air, as they
lightly skimmed over the pond, making the woods, which lined the banks,
ring with their cheerful tones and merry laughter.

"I don't believe any body in the world is as happy as I am," exclaimed
the enthusiastic Helen, as she sat by the fire after tea, waiting for
her parents to be ready for the catechising.

"Come, my daughter, I should like to have you tell me why you are so
happy," remarked Mr. Dermott, after Walter had repeated the answer for
the evening.

"Is it in the lesson, papa?" asked the child, glancing merrily into his
face.

"Yes, if you choose to have it so."

"Well, it is because I have such dear, kind parents, who do every thing
to make me happy; and such a darling brother, and cousin, and little
sister; and O, there are ever so many reasons!"

"Go on, my dear, let us hear them all." Mr. and Mrs. Dermott gazed into
her glowing countenance, radiant with life and hope, and thought, "We,
too, are happy in having such a child."

"Well, then," continued Helen, "I have such a pleasant home, and plenty
to eat and drink, and pretty clothes, all ready for me to wear, and
nice playthings to amuse myself with. O, I can't help being very happy."

"Then you are thankful to your parents for providing for your wants?"

"Yes, indeed, papa."

"It is right you should be so, my daughter. Children seldom realize how
much their parents do for them. Your mother knows, for instance, that
in an hour or two from this time, your eyes will begin to grow heavy
with sleep; and she has provided each of you with a comfortable bed.
She is sure that when you awake in the morning, you will be hungry; and
she has provided breakfast. She knows that if you are not warmly clad
on such a day as this, you can take no comfort in your walks or plays;
and see how carefully she has arranged for you! Each little one with
a warm hood, tippet, and mittens, made by her own hands! This is only
a small part of what she does, even for your physical wants. And then
we endeavor to provide for your moral and intellectual improvement. We
teach you, provide you healthful amusements, give you books to read,
and do all in our power to fulfil aright our duty as parents.

"But what is all we do compared with the loving care of Him who giveth
us life, and breath, and all things? This constant, tender, overruling
care of our heavenly Father, is called his providence, and extends
to the very meanest of his creatures. He watches over us, guards us
from dangers often unseen by us, gives us food to eat and clothes to
wear, preserves and governs us. What does the Catechism say of God's
providence?"

"That it is holy, wise, and powerful," replied Walter.

"Over whom is it extended?"

"To all his creatures and all their actions."

"Yes, there is not a thought in our hearts, nor a word upon our
lips, nor all action of our lives, but he notices it. David has most
beautifully and comprehensively expressed his sense of the government
and providence of God in these words:

   "'O Lord, thou hast searched me, and known me. Thou knowest my
 down-sitting, and mine up-rising; thou understandest my thought afar
 off. Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with
 all my ways. For there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou
 knowest it altogether.'

"God's providence extends, also, to the angels, to the birds of the
air, the fishes of the sea, the beasts of the field, and oven the
little insects; over the clouds, winds, and storms; over the waves of
the sea; and over the sun, moon, and stars. To each he extends his
powerful protection, and has only to speak to have them perform his
holy will.

"Our dear Helen acknowledged, to-night, her indebtedness to her parents
for their watchful care of her. How thankful, then, ought she, and all
of us, to be to that Merciful Being whose tender love watches us with
more than any earthly father's solicitude, who numbers even the hairs
of our heads, and whose power is able to protect us from all harm!"


"More than a dozen years ago, a gentleman by the name of Norcross
was visiting Now York city upon important business. He had nearly
completed it, when he received a letter from his daughter, living near
Boston, saying that her little sister was ill, and her mother hoped he
would return at once. He looked at his card stating the hour when the
steamboat left the wharf, and found that by using despatch, he should
have just time to conclude his business, and return by the first boat.

"He hurried to the store where he had made large purchases, and by
great exertion, both on his own part and that of the clerks, had his
goods packed, marked, and delivered to the truckman, promising to meet
him at the wharf. He delayed only long enough to pass a check to the
merchant in payment for the goods, and, congratulating himself that his
business was so satisfactorily performed, hastened on foot to the boat.

"In consequence of his watch being too slow, he reached the wharf just
fire minutes after she had started. Disappointed more than he could
express, he congratulated himself that his goods were safely on board;
when, hearing a sound behind him, he recognized the truckman who had
them in charge. With an impatient expression, he rebuked the man for
his delay. But it had been a necessary one. In passing through one of
the narrow streets, it became so crowded with trucks, that for some
minutes he was obliged to stand entirely still.

"Now mark the overruling providence of God. He had determined that
this child of his should be spared to his family, and all these
circumstances, as the not keeping his watch up to the time, and the
crowd of carriages in the street, were the means by which God saved
both the life and property of Mr. Norcross. That boat was the ill-fated
Lexington, which was burned on her passage from New York to Providence.
Had he arrived in season, no doubt he would have perished."

   "Just as a mother, with sweet, pious face,
    Yearns toward her children from her seat,
    Given one a kiss, another an embrace,
    Takes this upon her knee, that on her feet;
    And while from actions, looks, complaints, pretences,
    She learns their feelings and their various will,
    To this a look, to that a word dispenses,
    And whether stern or smiling, loves them still;—
    So Providence for us, high, infinite,
    Makes our necessities its watchful task,
    Hearkens to all our prayers, helps all our wants;
    And even if it denies what seems our right,
    Either denies because 'twould have us ask,
    Or seems but to deny, or in denying grants."



CHAPTER XII.

THE COVENANT OF WORKS; OR, THE FIRST WEDDING.


QUESTION XII. _What special act of providence did God exercise toward
man in the estate wherein he was created?_

ANSWER. When God had created man, he entered into a covenant of life
with him, upon condition of perfect obedience, forbidding him to eat of
the tree of knowledge of good and evil, upon pain of death.

                              ——————

WALTER DERMOTT was, as I have said, a boy of remarkable intelligence
for one of his years. He had naturally a quick and somewhat passionate
temper; but this had been so controlled by his parents, that at the
present time he was a conscientious, amiable youth.

He was exceedingly fond of his sisters and cousin, especially of
Isabelle, who was, indeed, a pet of the whole family. Helen was more
nearly like himself—active, enthusiastic, and energetic. Belle was
quiet, and though affectionate, yet not demonstrative. She rarely lost
her temper, and gained many friends by her readiness to oblige all who
were in need of her services. She was very fond of hearing stories,
especially those contained in the Bible; and Walter could at any time
attach her to himself by the promise of story.

Since the lessons in the Catechism had commenced, he had often been
called upon to repeat the stories which had illustrated them. She had
been particularly interested in the narrative of the creation, and was
delighted to learn that there would be a continuation of this account.

"Isabelle," called her father, when her mother had read the answer for
her, "have you ever been to a wedding?"

"No, sir."

"O, yes, you have!" cried Helen. "Only you didn't know what it was. You
remember when cousin James stood up with Sarah Churchill?"

"And she cried so when they were bidding her good by?"

"Yes, that was a wedding."

"Once I was a boy like Walter," added Mr. Dermott, "and lived at home
with my father and mother. Your mother was younger than you are, and
lived nearly a mile distant. By and by, as I grew up, I wanted some
young lady, who knew about housekeeping, to come and take care of me.
There were a great many young ladies in the town, and a great many more
in the city where I was doing business; but somehow I liked your mother
the best, and thought, if she would consent to leave her parents,
brothers, and sisters, I would purchase a house, and we would have a
home of our own."

"And did she?" eagerly asked the child, fixing upon her father a pair
of bright blue eyes.

Mr. Dermott gave his wife a glance of affection; and Helen exclaimed,
"Why, yes, we know she did, or else she would not have been here now."

"I hope no one will ask me to go away," said Isabelle with a deep sigh.
"I should not like to go away from home."

"Of course they won't while you are a little girl," remarked Walter in
a comforting tone.

"I was very glad that she said yes," continued the gentleman; "indeed,
I don't know what would have become of me if she had refused, for I
could think of no one else, among all my friends, who would do as well."

Helen caught her mother's hand, and pressed it enthusiastically to her
lips.

"Then I went to her father's house," added the gentleman, "and we
stood up together and were married, and that was called a wedding. We
promised to love and cherish each other as long as we lived. The Bible
has rules for persons who live together as we intended to, and we
promised to try to live according to them. Now, Walter, can you tell me
what relation Adam was to Eve?"

"He was her husband."

"Where was their wedding?"

"In Eden."

"Who married them?

"God."

"There was a great and glorious company present; can you tell me who
they were?"

"I suppose," replied Mrs. Dermott, "you refer to the angels, as the
Bible says,—

   "'The morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted
 for joy.'"

"Then God entered into a covenant, here called a covenant of
life,—perhaps you would call it an agreement,—with the newly married
pair, that if they would render perfect obedience to his one command,
and not eat of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, they might enjoy
all the pleasures of the beautiful garden, and a whole eternity of joy
and bliss. But if they disobeyed his command, and ate the forbidden
fruit, they would be cast out of the garden, and becoming sinful, would
be made miserable forever."

"I think it was real mean in them to eat the forbidden fruit," cried
Walter, indignantly, "when God had done so much to make them happy."

"Yes, my dear, those who commit sin are always guilty of meanness. But
is it any less mean and foolish in us to sin than it was in them?"

"It seems to me it would have been very easy for them to obey in just
one thing," added the boy.

"Yes, to us it does seem so, especially as they had not the temptation
of wicked hearts prompting them to sin. Their only temptation was from
Satan, who, from the moment they were placed in paradise, watched for
an opportunity to destroy their happiness. Remember, children, he is
just as busy now as he was then. He is constantly whispering in the
ear of some little boy or girl, that it would be no harm for them to
disobey their father or their mother—no harm to break the laws of God.

"To impress this answer upon your minds, I shall illustrate it by a
story which is not true; but which I shall invent for this occasion. It
is called a parable, and is like what the Saviour used, to illustrate
and enforce the truths which he taught."


"There was once a boy by the name of Edward. He had a father, mother,
and one sister. He had also a rich uncle, named Mr. Tudor, who had
lived for many years in India, and brought home a great many curious
things. Some of these were placed for safe keeping with his sister,
who was the mother of Edward. The boy had amused himself for hours in
examining them. But there was in the attic a small, curiously-shaped
box, which very much excited his attention. There must be something
very wonderful in it. Edward longed to see it opened. When his
uncle visited them, Mrs. Rowe told him of the boy's desire, and he
immediately sent for his nephew to come into the room.

"'Edward,' said he, 'your mother says you are curious to know what is
in that foreign box up stairs.'

"The boy looked rather confused, but answered, 'Yes, sir.'

"'Well, I sent for you to tell you that on no account must you touch
it. Remember if you are ever so curious, don't go near it, for you
might be seriously hurt, and perhaps killed. But I will make a
covenant, or agreement with you, that if you will not go near it until
my return, which will be in one month, I will give you all that it
contains, which will be a very valuable present.'

"'I will be sure to remember,' exclaimed Edward, in an animated tone.

"The next day, when his uncle left, he said, 'Remember our agreement,
my boy, and be sure not to go near the box.'

"This was said in an impressive voice, and deepened Edward's
determination to fulfil his part of the agreement. In order to do this,
he promised himself that he would not go into the attic, for fear it
would be a temptation to open the forbidden box, as the key, he found,
was attached to the trunk by a string. But in two or three days he
found himself sitting again by its side, and wondering at its contents.
He began to reason, as Eve did, that his uncle really meant nothing by
the threat. He thought about the box, and dreamed about it, until he
lost his appetite, and grew thin and pale.

"In Milton's 'Paradise Lost,' he says that Eve dreamed of eating the
fruit; then she persuaded Adam that they should accomplish more in
tending their garden, if they were separated for a season, as it took
up too much time to talk, and bestow glances of affection. So she went
to a distance from him, where the tempter found her; and we know too
well the sad consequences. We must defer the conclusion of our story
until the next lesson."



CHAPTER XIII.

THE FALL OF MAN; OR, THE MYSTERIOUS BOX.


QUESTION XIII. _Did our first parents continue in the estate wherein
they were created?_

ANSWER. Our first parents, being left to the freedom of their own will,
fell from the state wherein they were created, by sinning against God.

                              ——————

VERY many times, during the week following the story of Edward, did the
children discuss the probabilities of his obtaining the prize.

"I do wonder what was in the box," exclaimed Helen.

"I can't think, or even guess," responded Walter; "but I could hold on
for one month, I know. Just think how silly 'twould be to go and look
when he was certain of knowing so soon, and of having such a reward
besides."

"I hope he kept the agreement," said Anna, "because his uncle said if
he opened the box, he would be very much hurt."

"Perhaps it was a spring lock," suggested Walter, "that would catch his
fingers and tear them right off."

On Thursday evening the little ones were punctually in their places,
which, as Mrs. Dermott remarked, was a proof of Walter's great interest
in the lesson, as it was bright moonlight night, and he had been
enjoying a fine skate in front of the house.

Anna repeated the answer in course, and then Mrs. Dermott asked, "Who
were our first parents, my dear?"

"Adam and Eve."

Mr. Dermott having taken his seat, said, "Walter, what is it to be left
to the freedom of one's will?"

"I always thought," replied the boy, "that it meant you might do a
thing or not, just as you chose."

"A very good definition, my boy! When God had placed Adam and Eve in
their beautiful home, he said,—

   "'Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. But of the tree
 of knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it; for in the day
 that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die.'

"Would God have told Adam not to eat of it, and threatened him with
death provided he did, if he was not left free to act in any way he
chose?"

"No, sir. If God knew he would be obliged to eat it, I don't believe he
would have told him not to."

"Do you suppose Edward, about whom I told you, had the freedom of his
will?"

"Yes, sir."

"It would have been foolish for his uncle to tell him to be sure not
to touch the box, and to offer him a reward for not touching it, if he
knew that he could not act according to his own choice. Satan evidently
thought that our first parents could eat of the forbidden fruit, or
abstain from eating, as they chose; for he presented many arguments
to induce them to partake of it. These would have been breath spent
in vain, if he was sure they would eat of it. Poor Eve yielded to his
wicked solicitations; and when—

   "'She saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant
 to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the
 fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave unto her husband with her, and he
 did eat.'

"By what arguments she prevailed upon him to disobey the only command
of their Maker, the Bible does not inform us. Having eaten the
forbidden fruit, the covenant of life was forfeited; they fell from the
state of purity and holiness, wherein they were created, by sinning
against God."


"We will now return to the history of Edward. One, two, three weeks of
the month had passed away, and Mrs. Rowe had entirely forgotten the
conversation about the box; but she had noticed that for a day or two
her son had not appeared well. She determined to question him upon the
subject.

"She was sitting after dinner with her husband, who had not yet left
the house, when they were startled by a loud scream of distress.
Starting to their feet, they knew not which way to run, when there came
another prolonged, agonizing cry. Rushing up stairs in the direction
in which the sound seemed to proceed, they distinctly heard dreadful
groans from the attic.

"There lay poor Edward upon the floor, his hands pressed convulsively
to his side, from which the blood was oozing through the clothes. The
fatal box was opened, and a pistol, which had been so arranged as to
protect the contents, had gone off when the boy lifted the lid."

[Illustration: Edward opening the fatal box.]

"Mr. Rowe tore open his clothes and tried to stanch the blood, while
the almost distracted mother flew down stairs to send for a physician.
For weeks Edward lay in bed after the ball had been extracted,
suffering the most acute pain, and tortured by bitter remorse for his
conduct. The physician at length told his mother that he feared her
poor boy would never again be perfectly well.

"After two months, he was able to sit bolstered up in a large chair,
when his uncle came to visit him. Upon talking with him for an hour,
the gentleman went to the attic and brought from thence the box which
had occasioned his young nephew so much trouble. He told him that while
he was in India, a young man assisted him in packing his goods for
his return home. He had a quantity of gold which he wished to bring,
and this young man begged his acceptance of this box with the pistol,
which he thought would betray any robbers who might approach it. He,
then, without loading the fire-arms, explained to the boy how it had
been arranged; after which, he took out a false bottom to the box, and
displayed to the gaze of the astonished youth a greater number of gold
pieces than he had ever seen together.

"'Perhaps,' added the gentleman, addressing his sister, 'it would
have been better for me to have told Edward what consequences would
certainly follow if he disobeyed my orders, and persisted in gratifying
his curiosity. I intended to make him a present, and thought it would
be a pleasant and profitable lesson to him. But I calculated too much
upon the strength of his moral principle.'"

"But, father," cried Walter eagerly, "didn't his uncle give him any of
the gold?"

Mr. Dermott smiled as he replied, "You know, my boy, I told you that
this was not a true story, but a parable."

"O, I'm glad," said Anna, with a sigh of relief. "I thought Edward
would have to be sick all his life."

   "'Tis fearful building upon any sin;
    One mischief entered, brings another in;
    The second pulls a third, the third draws more,
    And they for all the rest set ope the door:
    Till custom take away the judging sense,
    That to offend we think it no offence."



CHAPTER XIV.

THE NATURE OF SIN; OR, THE CONVICT.


QUESTION XIV. _What is sin?_

ANSWER. Sin is any want of conformity unto, or transgression of, the
law of God.

                              ——————

THE account of Edward made a deep impression upon the minds of the
children, although well aware it was only an imaginary sketch. They
prayed more earnestly to be assisted to do what was right, and were
more conscientious in the performance of their duties.

Mr. Dermott one day overheard Walter and Anna talking about Edward.

Walter said, "I bet I wouldn't have opened that box; and I think he was
real silly for doing it."

"Don't you ever do wrong?" asked Anna, simply.

"Yes, of course I do," replied the boy, in an embarrassed tone; "but if
I was tried in that way, I wouldn't."

"I'm afraid I should," replied Anna, humbly. "I did want to know so
much what was in the box."


"What is conformity to any thing, Helen?" asked her father, after the
answer had been correctly repeated.

"I don't know, sir."

"Walter, do you remember, when I took you to the academy, I requested
the teacher to give you a list of the rules or laws of the school? And
when he did so, I told him that I hoped you would always conform to
them. What did I mean by that?"

"I suppose you meant that you hoped I should comply with the rules, or
do every thing the laws required."

"Just so. Well, whose laws must we conform to?"

"The laws of God."

"In what book are these laws written?"

"In the Bible," replied Helen.

"What is breaking God's law called?"

"Transgression of it," said Walter.

"And what other word denotes nearly the same idea as transgression of
God's holy law?"

"Sin."

"Yes, and it is equally sin if we do not conform to the law. Suppose
God had commanded Adam and Eve to eat of the fruit of a particular
tree, and they had not done it, would they not have sinned just as much
as by eating the forbidden fruit?"

"Yes, sir."

"But for a long time after the creation of the world, God's law was
not written down in the Bible; your mother will tell you where it was
written."

"Paul says it was written in the hearts of men,—

   "'their conscience also bearing witness.'"

"Before the Bible was completed, God wrote his commands upon two tables
of stone. Do you know what became of them?"

"Moses broke them in pieces, because he was so angry that the
Israelites worshipped the golden calf; but God wrote them again, and
afterward they were put into the ark."

"In what part of the Bible do we find them?"

"In the twentieth chapter of Exodus, and also in Deuteronomy."

"Has any one ever lived in perfect conformity to the law of God?"

"Jesus Christ did."

"Now for a story, father," said Helen.

Mr. Dermott smiled, and commenced.


"Very late one evening, a good clergyman was called upon to go to a
house in the outskirts of his parish to visit a poor woman, who, the
messenger said, was nigh unto death. The night was extremely cold, and
the minister was by no means young; but he hesitated not one minute in
the performance of this duty. He set out, in company with his guide,
who was a lad apparently just entering his teens; and, by walking at a
rapid pace, reached the spot in about twenty minutes. The boy seemed
averse to conversation, and only said he was the son of a neighbor of
the poor woman who was sick.

"The house, or rather hovel, seemed to be filled with people, as they
approached. But the clergyman made his way inside the door, where
his footsteps were arrested by the most distressing sounds he had
ever heard. They seemed to be the wailings of a broken heart; and so,
indeed, they were. Lying on a cot bed, in the centre of the apartment,
was a poor woman, her hair pushed back from her head, and lying loosely
upon the pillow. Her face was thin, while a paleness, like that of
death, was spread over it. Her eyes were closed; but the rigid features
and the pinched nostrils disclosed the fact that she was conscious of
her sufferings. Close by her, and grasping her tightly by the hand, sat
a young girl, with her face buried in the pillow; but her convulsed
form and long-drawn sighs showed that she was in the deepest affliction.

"It was a long time before the minister could ascertain the
circumstances connected with these poor suffering persons. The woman
lying before him was a widow. Her only son had that day been convicted
of forgery, and condemned to the state prison for a long course of
years. He had transgressed the laws of his country, and now he must pay
the penalty. The young woman, clinging so tightly to the pale sufferer,
was betrothed to the son. But now her light was turned into darkness,
her joy into the deepest sorrow. One of the neighbors, returning from
the city, had brought the fatal news; and, ever since she heard it, the
poor broken-hearted mother had seemed more dead than alive.

"'If she would only cry, now, as Malissy does,' said one of the women,
'I should have more hopes of her; but she does nothing but moan, moan,
as if her heart was breaking.'

"Mr. Lawson, having requested the women to retire to the farther part
of the room, drew near the couch, and placed his hand on the cold, damp
forehead. There was no answering sign. He then kneeled by the side of
the bed, and, in words the most compassionate and tender, he besought
the mercy of God for the poor guilty son. He was a father; and he well
knew how a parent's heart was wounded by the ill-doing of a child.

"The moanings ceased, and presently the features relaxed. The mother
whispered a feeble response. The young girl raised her head to listen.
But her grief was net wholly unselfish. The guilty man was lost to her
forever. The clergyman increased in fervor. He besieged the mercy-seat,
and would not be denied a blessing. A bright, red spot, on either cheek
of the mother, proved that hope for her son was once more springing up
in her breast.

"'O my God, be merciful to my sinful boy!' burst from her lips, as the
prayer ceased. 'Let me die, if, by that means, his soul may be saved.'

"'God in heaven grant him forgiveness,' said Mr. Lawson, his voice
trembling with emotion.

"But I must cut short my story. The good clergyman became so much
interested in these poor afflicted ones, that he visited the prison,
and, through the kindness of the chaplain, was allowed free access to
the culprit. At first the young man was stubborn, and declined talking
with a stranger. But at length, moved by the account of his mother's
heart-rending grief, his proud heart was softened, and he wept like a
grieved child. When Mr. Lawson gave him Malissy's last farewell, he
said, 'I supposed it would come to that,' but presently added, 'Tell me
more about my mother.'

"From time to time, Mr. Lawson visited the youth; and at length, he
had the happiness to soothe the dying moments of the mother with the
tidings that her poor, guilty boy had cast himself at the feet of the
Saviour, with the prayer of the publican upon his lips,—

   "'God be merciful to me a sinner.'

"But what a dreadful thing that for his transgression he must remain
shut up from the light of day, or from any intercourse with his race,
until his heart was chilled, and his hair white with premature old age!

"Dear children, though I hope you have never been guilty of any
outward transgression, such as this poor youth committed, yet have
you not often, yea, every hour of your lives, been guilty of sins of
omission, such as the neglect of prayer, and of choosing Christ to be
your Saviour; cherishing a carnal mind, which is enmity against God,
not subject to his law, neither indeed can be; and, also, want of
conformity to his laws, such as a disinclination to obey him and all
his requirements?"



CHAPTER XV.

THE FORBIDDEN FRUIT; OR, THE BROKEN RULE.


QUESTION XV. _What was the sin whereby our first parents fell from the
estate wherein they were created?_

ANSWER. The sin whereby our first parents fell from the estate wherein
they were created, was their eating the forbidden fruit.

                              ——————

ON Thursday, the very day of the next exercise, Mr. and Mrs.
Dermott were suddenly called away to attend the funeral of an aged
relative. They were absent until Saturday; and much to the children's
disappointment, they concluded to postpone the lesson until Thursday of
the next week.

When the answer had been repeated, Mr. Dermott asked his wife to give
an account of the trees in the garden of Eden.

"We read in Genesis," she said, "that God created every tree that
is pleasant to the sight, which I suppose means beautiful plants or
flowering shrubs, such as roses, magnolias, and jessamines; or those
that emit fragrance, or in any other way delight the senses. He created
also every tree that was good for food, whether of the pulpy fruits,
such as oranges, lemons, and apples; or of the kernel and nut kind,
such as dates and nuts of different sorts. I suppose these also include
all running vines, bearing melons, &c., and all esculent vegetables.

"Walter, can you tell me the names of two trees which stood in the
midst of the garden?"

"Yes, sir. The tree of life, and the tree of knowledge of good and
evil."

"Which tree was forbidden to our first parents?"

"The latter one."

"Among all the fruits which they had eaten, had they ever tasted of the
tree of life?"

"I don't know, sir."

"Probably not; for after they had eaten of the tree of knowledge, God
said, 'Behold, the man has become as one of us, to know good and evil;
and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life,
and eat, and live forever; therefore the Lord God sent him forth from
the garden of Eden to till the ground from whence he was taken,' and he
placed 'a flaming sword, which turned every way to keep the way of the
tree of life.'

"Many writers consider this tree an emblem of that life which man
should ever live, provided he continued in obedience to his Maker. And
probably the use of this tree was intended as the means of preserving
the body of man in a state of continual vital energy, and an antidote
against death.

"What other command did God give respecting the tree of knowledge,
beside forbidding them to eat of it?"

"He forbade them to touch it," answered Helen.

"Why did God forbid them to eat of it, or even to touch it?"

"To try them, and see whether they would obey him."

"Do you not think there was some other reason?" asked Mrs. Dermott, of
her husband. "It would seem God thought man really had acquired undue
knowledge."

"It is exceedingly difficult to understand exactly how much is here
meant. Some writers think the sight of the tree was always to remind
man that there was a bound set to his knowledge; that there was one
thing God had seen proper to deprive him of. Others think that the tree
possessed a particular property of increasing knowledge, a physical
influence, having a tendency to strengthen the understanding, and
invigorate the faculties.

"Who tempted Eve to eat the forbidden fruit?"

"The serpent."

"By what other names is he called in the Bible?"

"Satan."

"Yes, and Apollyon or Abaddon. He is also called the father of lies,
and the roaring lion who goeth about seeking whom he may devour. By
what arguments did he prevail with her to eat?"

"In the first place," answered Mrs. Dermott, "he charged God with a
lie. She had said, 'God has given us every tree but this. If we eat of
this tree, he says, we shall die.' But Satan said, 'That is not true,
and God knows it is not. He wishes to keep you ignorant. I am sincerely
your friend, and I tell you that if you eat of this tree, you will
become as gods, knowing good and evil.'

"O, what a wicked serpent!" cried Walter. "I should have thought Eve
would have known better than to believe him."

"What three reasons induced her to disobey God, and to eat of the tree?
You may read, Anna, from the Bible."

   "'And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that
 it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise,
 she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her
 husband with her, and he did eat.'"

"Alas! How many children are tempted to their ruin by the appeal
to their senses! Some become intemperate and gluttons from their
inordinate love of eating; others, from their overweening fondness for
dress and display, are carried into the vanities of the world, and thus
lose their souls."


"I once heard," continued the gentleman, "of a poor peasant in England,
who, on one occasion, met with a company of persons that disbelieved
the Bible and the sacred truths it contained.

"'They argued and reasoned,' said the poor man, 'until they shook my
belief. But all the time I knew I was in error, only I was so ignorant
I could not answer their objections.

"'At length one of them asked me, "How can you be so foolish as to
suppose that God would destroy Adam and all his descendants just for
eating an apple?"

"'I had often reflected upon this weak objection raised by unbelievers;
and I instantly answered, "It was not that our first parents ate a
particular kind of fruit; it was, that they had disobeyed God. It was,
sir, that they broke the rule."'"



CHAPTER XVI.

THE BROKEN COVENANT; OR, THE FAMILY OF THIEVES.


QUESTION XVI. _Did all mankind fall in Adam's first transgression?_

ANSWER. The covenant being made with Adam, not only for himself,
but for his posterity, all mankind, descending from him by ordinary
generation, sinned in him, and fell with him in his first transgression.

                              ——————

"I HOPE we shall have a long story this time," exclaimed Isabelle, as
they were seated around the fire, waiting for their father and mother,
who were engaged with company.

"That was a good story last time," rejoined Walter. "Don't you remember
father told us about the trees in the garden, and how the serpent
talked with Eve? I wonder if the serpent looked like the great snakes
we have now."

At this moment Mrs. Dermott returned to the room, and, having heard her
son's remark, took from the library a volume of Milton's Paradise Lost,
and read,—

                                   "His head
   Crested aloft, and carbuncle his eyes;
   With burnished neck of verdant gold, erect
   Amidst his circling spires, that on the grass
   Floated redundant; pleasing was his shape and lovely."

"I shouldn't want to see him," cried Helen, with an air of disgust; "I
hate snakes."

Mr. Dermott having come into the room, Helen repeated the answer, when
he continued, "You will remember that God made a bargain or agreement
with Adam and Eve, that if they would yield obedience to his command
about the forbidden fruit, they should live forever. This I told you
was called a covenant of life, or of works. They forfeited the reward
by their disobedience; and now they must pay the penalty. They were
driven out of that pleasant home, and were condemned to eternal death.
Was this covenant, Walter, made for themselves alone?"

"It was made for all mankind."

"Where do we learn this?"

Mrs. Dermott turned to Paul's Epistle to the Romans, and read,—

   "'For as by the offence of one, judgment came upon all men to
 condemnation, even so by the righteousness of one, the free gift
 came upon all men unto justification of life. For as by one man's
 disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall
 many be made righteous.'

"Is it common for God to join children with their parents in his
covenants?"

"He does in the second commandment."

"Yes, and he did with Noah, and also with Abraham.

   "'And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your
 seed after you.'"

"What is the meaning, father, of 'ordinary generation'?"

"It means, Helen, that children follow their parents; then they grow
up and have families; and thus one generation follows another. Do you
remember that very old gentleman we saw at your grandfather's? He said
he had lived to see married members of four generations—himself and
wife, his son with his wife, his grandson with his wife, and now he has
a great-granddaughter, who is just married.

"Adam lived to be nine hundred and thirty years old, so that he must
have seen many generations of his posterity. How sad must his life have
been to think that by his disobedience he had not only forfeited the
favor of God, the delightful pleasures of paradise, and the joys of
eternal life, but that all who would descend from him must participate
in the consequences of his first transgression! They fell with him from
his high estate, just as when a man who is immensely wealthy fails. He
does not suffer alone. His children and his children's children must
become sharers in his poverty. Or as a man who is executed upon the
gallows does not suffer alone; his children, to the latest generation,
suffer with him. They can never get rid of the disgrace.

"Or suppose a man, like our neighbor, Mr. Morse, is dreadfully deformed
by scrofula, and has suffered from it all his life, as his father did
before him. Now, look at his children. Every one of them is tainted
with the same disease. Lydia has it in the form of consumption, Esther
in sore eyes, while the little boys, James and Joseph, are always
breaking out in great sores upon their bodies.

"So it is in the case of Adam. He sinned, and all his race are infected
with the plague of sin. In one it shows itself by unbounded ambition;
in another by pride; in another by selfishness. In one little girl
we see vanity; in another disobedience to her parents. One boy tells
lies; another steals; another swears. Some do all these; but every one
of the race has inherited the fatal taint, and is neither morally nor
physically sound."


"In a town situated near the centre of the State of Connecticut there
lived a man who, in early life, was often detected in stealing small
articles from his playmates. As he grew older, he became more hardened
in crime. He married, and had four sons and three daughters. But during
this time he had been sentenced twice to the state prison once to serve
out a term of three years, the other of two.

"As soon as his sons were old enough, each one of them became addicted
to pilfering, so that they were considered a nuisance to the whole
neighborhood. One by one they left home to seek their fortune in a
wider sphere; and the first news of them that came back was, that they
had been convicted of this crime, and were sentenced to prison for a
longer or shorter period.

"The daughters were all younger. One of them was taken into the service
of a lady at the age of thirteen: In a few months her mistress detected
her in purloining articles of clothing from her wardrobe. She was
dismissed from service after a trial of several months, during which
she often repeated her offence.

"The second daughter was a very handsome girl. She went to the city
to learn the trade of a milliner, and was soon after sent to jail for
what was called shoplifting. She was shopping for her employer, saw an
elegant lace cape which she coveted, and while the clerk was waiting
upon another customer, endeavored to hide it beneath her shawl. The
article was missed, she was pursued, the cape discovered, and she was
punished for her theft.

"The youngest daughter was taken from her mother's arms by a benevolent
lady who believed the sad fate of the children to be the consequence
of their early training. She began very early to teach the little one
the difference between mine and thine, and through all the years when
the young mind is so susceptible to outward influence, endeavored to
impress upon her, both by precept and example, that it was sin to
appropriate to one's self the property of another; but it was in vain.
The seeds of sin were planted at her birth; and though she knew not
even of the existence of her relatives, yet she followed in the same
footsteps, and brought sorrow and disgrace into the family of her kind
benefactress.

"A few years since, the father, now a white-haired old man, and his
four sons, were confined together in the state prison. In the father's
case, as in the second son's, it was an aggravated one; and they were
condemned to pass the rest of their lives within the prison walls. The
others would be released in a few years, but would probably return to
spend their days in confinement."

   "O Sin, what hast thou done to this fair earth!"

   "Sin hath broken the world's sweet peace—unstrung
    The harmonious chords to which the angels sung."



CHAPTER XVII.

MAN'S FALLEN STATE; OR, THE DEPOSED MINISTER.


QUESTION XVII. _Into what estate did the fall bring mankind?_

ANSWER. The fall brought mankind into an estate of sin and misery.

                              ——————

IT was a rare event in the family of Mr. Dermott for the children to
disagree to such an extent as to use unkind words. They had early been
taught the beauty of yielding to each other's wishes, and thus gaining
a conquest over themselves. With Isabelle's quiet temperament, this
was comparatively easy; but with Walter and Helen it was far more
difficult, as they were naturally hasty and impulsive, often reminding
their father of his own youth by their striking similarity to himself.

On the very afternoon of the catechising, however, Walter came in from
his play somewhat out of temper, and, taking a book from Anna's hands,
sat down to read. The tears quickly filled the eyes of the little girl;
but Helen loudly remonstrated, "How unkind you are, Walter, when Anna
is just in the midst of a story!"

"So am I," replied the boy, petulantly, "and it's my book."

"I lent you my new one before I had read it myself," sobbed Anna.

"Here, take it, then!" exclaimed Walter, angrily. "Such a fuss when a
boy sits down to read his own book!" And he threw the volume into the
lap of the weeping girl.

"You're an ugly boy," cried his sister. "Anna and I were having a real
nice time, when you came in—and spoiled it all. Mother says she wishes
you would govern your temper."

Walter got up, and was walking angrily out of the room, when he met
his mother. She saw at once that there had been trouble, and, taking
him gently by the hand, requested him to return. With a few judicious
words, she soon succeeded in quieting the ruffled waves, and in fifteen
minutes the children were sitting lovingly together—the boy with his
arm thrown around his cousin's neck, and reading from the same page.

In the evening, when they had seated themselves for their favorite
exercise, Mrs. Dermott asked, "Helen, can you tell me, my dear, where
was the first quarrel?"

The little girl arched her eyebrows and shook her head.

"It was in the garden of Eden, my child, immediately after the first
pair had partaken of the forbidden fruit."

Helen's face was crimson, and she quickly replied, "I didn't begin the
quarrel, mother."

"Well, you called me names," replied Walter, looking very much ashamed.

"Stop at once!" exclaimed Mr. Dermott. "Or we will discontinue the
lesson."

"Do you understand, Anna," inquired Mrs. Dermott, "what is meant by the
fall?"

"No, aunt, not exactly."

"You know Adam and Eve were created in the image of their Maker, in
knowledge, righteousness and holiness. By their disobedience they were
cast down from their high estate; and this is called the fall. Milton
and Beaumont thus graphically describe it:—

                        "'Her rash hand in evil hour
   Forth reaching to the fruit, she plucked, she ate;
   Earth felt the wound, and Nature, from her seat
   Sighing through all her works, gave signs of woe
   That all was lost.'

 "'Up went her desperate hand, and reached away
   All the world's bliss, when she the apple took;
   When, lo, the earth did move, the heavens did stay,
   Beasts and birds shivered, absent Adam shook.'"


"I remember well," remarked Mr. Dermott, "that there was a great
excitement about a minister who had for many years been settled in the
town adjoining the one where your mother and I lived. For a year he
had been absent from his people, soliciting funds from the churches
for some charitable object. At length it was ascertained that he
had appropriated almost all the money he had raised to his own use,
and thus been guilty of breaking the eighth commandment. A council
of ministers was called, who took away his license, and deposed him
from the pastoral office. This was called his fall; and I remember
afterwards hearing my father ask,—

"'Where is Mr. Monson?'

"The gentleman replied, 'After his fall, he removed his family from
town, and for months we have heard nothing from him.'"

"By what was the fall of Adam followed?"

"By additional sin and misery."

"Do these always go together?"

"Yes, sir," replied Helen.

"How did sin and misery first exhibit themselves?"

"I don't know, sir," answered Walter; "but I should think when Cain
killed Abel."

"It was long before that. Soon after Eve had persuaded her husband to
partake with her of the fruit of the forbidden tree, she heard God
calling,—

"'Adam, hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou
shouldst not eat?'

"And he said, 'The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of
the tree, end I did eat.'

"In this reply, he not only endeavored to shield himself from
responsibility by throwing the blame upon his wife, but he virtually
reproached God—'the woman whom thou gavest me.' 'If I had been alone, I
never should have done it; but she tempted me, and I could not resist.'

"And the Lord God said unto the woman, 'What is this that thou hast
done?'

"And the woman said, 'The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.'

"Neither would she bear the blame, but cast it upon another. How much
better would it have been for them to cast themselves down at the feet
of their Maker, and confess their guilt! How unkind for Adam not to try
to shield his wife! But such were the early fruits of sin. No doubt
after this, there were many unkind words and feelings between the once
happy pair.

"The next occasion of quarrelling which is recorded in Scripture is
the melancholy story of Cain and Abel. The dreadful plague of sin,
which they had inherited from their parents, had sprung up in their own
hearts, and in Cain it yielded bitter fruit, bringing misery and death
into their household."

"Who can doubt," remarked Mrs. Dermott, "that the fall brought mankind
into a state of sin and misery when he looks around and realizes that
but for sin there would be no wars, no armies, no hospitals?"

"No prisons, jails nor houses of correction," added her husband.
"There would be no physicians, because there would be no sickness nor
suffering; no orphan asylums nor houses for the blind; no unhappy
marriages; no deeds, nor bonds, nor suits at law; and no divorces, no
murders, thefts, nor backbitings; no quarrels between children, nor
throwing the blame upon each other. There would have been no need of
the spilling of a Saviour's blood, for man would have been at peace
with his Maker. No; the world would present one glorious scene of
holiness, and happiness, a heaven upon earth, the delight of angels and
of God himself. The joy of one would make more complete the bliss of
all. The beasts of the field, instead of preying upon each other, would
find their appropriate food growing spontaneously upon the earth. The
lion would lie down with the lamb, and a little child would lead them."

   "Our sins, like to our shadows
    When our day is in its glory, scarce appear;
    Toward our evening, how great and monstrous
    They are!"



CHAPTER XVIII.

MAN'S SINFULNESS; OR, THE DISEASED FAMILY.


QUESTION XVIII. _Wherein consists the sinfulness of that estate
whereinto man fell?_

ANSWER. The sinfulness of that estate whereinto man fell consists in
the guilt of Adam's first sin, the want of original righteousness, and
the corruption of his whole nature, which is commonly called original
sin, together with all actual transgressions which proceed from it.

                              ——————

"I WISH father wouldn't bring me into the lesson," cried Walter, as he
was sitting in a large stuffed chair before the fire, waiting for his
parents and sisters to be through with their tea.

"I'll ask him not to," replied Helen, just then entering to room.
"Here, I've brought you a cup of milk and water, and mother says if you
relish it, you may eat this toasted cracker. I hope you'll like it,"
added the sympathizing child, "for I fixed it myself with nice cream
and salt."

"You're a dear little girl," replied Walter, "and I'll try to eat it
just because you have taken so much pains."

For several days the boy had been ill in his chamber, but at his
earnest request, his mother had allowed him to come down to the parlor,
where, wrapped in a loose dressing gown, he was awaiting the exercise.

"How do you find yourself to-night, my boy?" asked his father, placing
his fingers upon his son's pulse. "Helen says you don't wish to be
brought into the catechising. Do you mean that you feel too ill to
recite with the others?"

"O, no, sir!" responded the boy, a slight flush overspreading his pale
countenance. "I meant that I don't like to have you speak about my
temper and such things; I'd rather hear about that some other time."

Mr. Dermott smiled, and told Isabelle it was her turn to repeat the
answer, and then asked her, "What was Adam's first sin?"

"Eating the apple, papa."

"Do you remember what I told you about Edward?"

"O, yes, papa," cried Helen.

"I think perhaps you will understand this question better, if I
illustrate it by a continuation of the story of Edward. When we left
him, he had somewhat recovered from the occasioned by his wound, but
was still far from well. He gradually recovered, so as to be able to
attend school, and then went into his father's store as clerk. But the
wound in his side had caused a pulmonary complaint which often confined
him to the house for weeks together.

"At the age of twenty-four he was married, and resided with his wife in
his father's family. In a course of years, five children were born to
them, each of whom, after a few months, began to show certain signs of
the disease which they had inherited from their father. The symptoms of
these were indeed slight at first, but just sufficient to show that the
seeds of consumption were implanted, and would at some time cause their
death. They were, however, an interesting family; and Edward loved them
with all a father's fondness.

"On a certain occasion, he perceived in one of his boys some symptoms
of that unbounded curiosity which had caused him the loss of health and
of independence; and he determined to relate his own story as a warning
to his children. With a bleeding heart and tear-dimmed eyes, he did so.

"When, with a burst of grief, his oldest daughter cried out, 'O,
father! How sorry I am you touched the box. If you had not, you would
never have been sick; and mother would not have looked so pale and
frightened as she does now, when you raise blood from your lungs.'

"'No, and we should have been rich too,' added the youngest boy; 'and
now we are so poor, I hardly ever have any new clothes, and I can't
have a sled, like all the other little boys.'

"Edward sighed heavily, as the children openly expressed what had for
many years been the burden of his thoughts by day and of his dreams by
night. 'Yes,' he cried bitterly, as he rushed from the room to conceal
his emotion; 'but for that one act of disobedience, I should now have
been blessed with health and an independent fortune. O, why did I not
die of the dreadful wound, instead of living to convey the seeds of
death to those so dear to me! This is my bitterest thought, that they
must suffer in consequence of my sin; and if they should live to become
parents, they must transmit the infection to future generations.'
Overcome by these thoughts, he wept aloud.

"And when his daughter rushed into the room, she saw that the
handkerchief with which her father was wiping his mouth was saturated
with blood.

"'O father,' exclaimed Helen, 'I don't like Edward's uncle at all. He
might have given him some money, when he had so much.'

"Now," resumed the gentleman, "we will leave the story of Edward,
and go back to the lesson, which says 'the sinfulness of that estate
whereinto man fell consists in the guilt of Adam's first sin,' just
as the children of Edward, by his disobedience, forfeited the favor
of his uncle, lost all the healthfulness and the property which they
might have inherited, and were visited with poverty, disease, and
wretchedness.

"Adam, you know, was created holy, or righteous—a quality here called
'original righteousness.' When he fell, he lost all this; and all
those who descended from him lost it with him. Their natures, which
would have been holy, causing them to think holy thoughts, to speak
holy words, and to perform holy actions, became wholly corrupt. And
henceforth they went 'astray from the womb speaking lies;' 'they have
all gone out of the way;' 'they have altogether become sinful;' 'there
is none that doeth good, no, not one.' The chief prophet of Israel
gives this account of the human heart: 'The whole head is sick, and the
whole heart faint; from the sole of the foot even unto the head, there
is no soundness in it.'

"Can you tell me, Walter, what are actual transgressions?"

"I suppose they are such as are acted out, as when we steal, or lie, or
swear, we commit actual transgressions."

"Yes, and we also commit them when we indulge wicked or unkind
thoughts, which proceed from a corrupt heart. If we neglect the duty of
prayer, or of keeping holy the Sabbath, all these flow from a carnal
mind, and are actual transgressions of the law of God. David prays,—

   "'Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be
 acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my Redeemer!'

"Last Sabbath there were three infants baptized," added Mrs. Dermott.
"Can you tell me, Walter, why water was used?"

"No, ma'am."

"Water is an element used for cleansing. Parents who carry their
children to this ordinance realize that they have inherited corruption,
and are unholy and unclean; therefore they desire them to be washed,
or purified. But I shall explain this more fully to you under another
question."



CHAPTER XIX.

MAN'S MISERY; OR, THE BATTLE FIELD.


QUESTION XIX. _What is the misery of that estate whereinto man fell?_

ANSWER. All mankind by the fall lost communion with God, are under his
wrath and curse, and so made liable to all the miseries of this life,
to death itself, and to the pains of hell forever.

                              ——————

IT was now the last week in March; and the children were looking
forward with great delight to the making of their gardens.

The last year, Mr. Dermott selected from his grounds a pleasant, sunny
spot, had it ploughed and enriched, and then divided it into four small
lots for his children. They were allowed to plant just what they chose,
and to take the entire care of their own enclosure. This plan succeeded
so well, and afforded so much innocent and healthful amusement to the
little ones, that their father was induced to repeat the experiment.

These pleasant anticipations, however, did not detract from their
interest in the catechisings; and on the evening of Thursday they were
in their places, eager as ever for the exercise to begin.

"We learn," commenced Mr. Dermott, "in the third chapter of Genesis,
that when God first created man, he allowed him to have free communion
with himself. Adam and Eve expressed no surprise when they heard the
voice of the Lord in the garden. It seems to have been an event of
frequent occurrence; but after they had sinned, they were afraid to
come into his presence, and hid themselves; just as a child who has
disobeyed the commands of his father is afraid to meet his eye.

"All communion between them was lost, and they fell under his wrath.
He told Eve that, in consequence of her disobedience, she should have
sickness and sorrow; and that, instead of the confiding love with which
her husband had heretofore regarded her, as she had so wickedly misused
her influence, she should henceforth become subject to his rule. To
Adam he said,—

   "'Cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it
 all the days of thy life. Thorns and thistles shall it bring forth to
 thee, and thou shalt eat the herb of the field. In the sweat of thy
 face shalt thou eat bread till thou return unto the ground.'

"Just see what misery the first married pair brought upon themselves
by their rash defiance of God's commands. Into how many parts does the
answer divide this misery?"

Walter glanced at the answer in the book, and replied, "Into six."

"And do all Adam's descendants come under the same?"

"Yes, sir, just as the children of Edward inherited their father's
sickness and poverty."

"To the first of these we have already alluded;—loss of communion with
God. Paul, in his Epistle to the Corinthians, says,—

   "'For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? what
 communion hath light with darkness?'

"We have seen, too, how Adam and all mankind are under God's wrath
and curse, and so are made liable to all the miseries of this life—to
profaneness, idolatry, and other sins. Even the tilling of the ground,
which before the fall was a recreation and delight, now became
laborious and painful.

"Mankind are liable also to death itself, and to the pains of hell
forever. It is written,—

   "'Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things written in
 the book of the law to do them.'

"And who can lay his hand upon his heart and say that he has done this?
No one born of woman except the Son of God. How terrible to be under
the wrath and curse of the Almighty! Thanks, everlasting thanks to Him
who hath given up his own life to redeem us from this dreadful curse,
and to provide a way for us to be again received into favor.

"Perhaps there is not a more impressive illustration of the miseries
of sin than that afforded by the battle field. An inspired apostle
inquires,—

   "'Whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence,
 even of your lusts, that war in your members?'"


"As a specimen of those, I will relate an incident, from the pen of a
clergyman, concerning the battle of Soldin.

"'At one o'clock the cannonading ceased. Toward evening, seven hundred
Russian fugitives came to Soldin, a most pitiful sight! Some holding up
their hands, cursing and swearing; others praying and praising the King
of Prussia; without hats, without clothes; some on foot, others two on
a horse, with their heads and arms tied up; some dragging along by the
stirrups, and others by the tails of the horses.

"'When the battle was decided in favor of the Prussians, I ventured to
the place where the cannonading had been. After walking some way, a
Cossack's horse came running at full speed toward me. I mounted him,
and on my way, for seven miles and a half on this side the field of
battle, I found the dead and wounded lying on the ground sadly cut
in pieces. The farther I advanced, the more these poor creatures lay
heaped upon one another. That scene I shall never forget. The Cossacks,
as soon as they saw me, cried out, "Dear sir, water, water, WATER!"

"'Righteous God! What a sight! Men, women, and children, Russians and
Prussians, carriages and horses, oxen, chests, and baggage, all lying
upon one another to the height of a man! Seven villages around me in
flames, and the inhabitants either massacred or thrown into the fire.

"'A noble Prussian officer, who had lost both his legs, cried out
to me, "Sir, you are a priest, and preach mercy: pray show me some
compassion, and despatch me at once."'"

"In the next lesson I shall give you an account of a new covenant of
grace."



CHAPTER XX.

ELECTION AND REDEMPTION; OR, THE NEW HOME.


QUESTION XX. _Did God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin
and misery?_

ANSWER. God having, out of his mere good pleasure, from all eternity,
elected some to everlasting life, did enter into a covenant of grace,
to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery, and to bring them
into a state of salvation by a Redeemer.

                              ——————

THIS year the old adage was verified. March had come in like a lion,
and it went out like a lamb. The air was warm and soft, and the
children could hardly believe that there would still be cold weather,
which would injure their seeds if they put them into the earth.

In the middle of the day, the ground for their little gardens was so
soft that Walter, who went out to make a survey, as he called it, was
glad to hobble into the house, leaving one shoe sticking fast in the
mud. This satisfied him that he had better follow his father's advice,
and wait until the frost was out of the ground, and the water had had
time to drain off or dry up. He changed his stockings, therefore, and
began to think what he should do until tea time, when, seeing the
Catechism lying upon the table, he looked at the answer, and committed
it to memory for the evening.

"You all seem to like to hear about Edward," remarked Mr. Dermott, when
they were ready for the lesson; "and perhaps it would be well for me to
illustrate the meaning of this answer by a continuation of my parable."

Helen clapped her hands, while the countenances of the others expressed
their pleasure.

"We will suppose, then," added the gentleman, "that Edward's rich
uncle returned to India soon after his nephew's accident, and that
he had only occasionally heard rumors of the sad consequences of his
disobedience.

"There he married, and had one son, Joshua, to whom he often related
the sad story of Edward, and whose love, sympathy, and pity were
greatly moved toward his relative. When he attained his majority, his
father settled upon him a large portion of his vast estate. About
this time, however, both father and son returned to the land of their
ancestors, and, bringing with them their vast treasures, they built a
splendid palace,—which they adorned with all that art or money could
obtain,—and then, when Edward was reduced to the last extremity of
poverty and wretchedness, his cousin went to visit him.

"'My dear friend,' he said, gazing with tender compassion upon the
sunken eyes and hollow cheeks of the once bright and rosy youth, 'my
heart aches to find you reduced to such a state of misery. For a long
time I have had a purpose of mercy toward you; indeed, I have satisfied
for your offence, propitiated my father's favor, prepared a home where
every comfort and happiness shall be yours. Leave this wretched abode;
come and share with me; I will provide for you forever.'"

The tender-hearted Anna wiped the tears from her eyes as she exclaimed,
"O, I am so glad he was provided for at last!"

"And could all his family go with him?" inquired Walter.

"All who pleased could go; the invitation was made freely to all of
them."

"Of course they did, then," cried Helen. "I wouldn't have staid a
minute in that old ugly place, when I could live in a palace, and have
such nice things."

"When Edward heard this noble, generous offer," resumed Mr. Dermott,
"he could hardly believe it. With a choking voice, he replied, 'Dear
cousin, your kindness overcomes me; but I am not ungrateful, and
whatever conditions or agreement you may see fit to make, I will do my
part toward their fulfilment.'

"'No, my poor Edward,' responded the gentleman; 'formerly my father, as
you well remember, made an agreement with you, whereby you could secure
your own happiness. That was forfeited; now I make another covenant
with you, whereby I promise all the blessings which, by means of my
immense estates, I have it in my power to grant. You have nothing to do
but to accept of them as freely as they are offered.'"

"O, what a kind man!" exclaimed Helen. "I was afraid he was going to
try them with another box."

"If he had," cried Walter, "they wouldn't have been such fools as to
touch it, after all they had suffered. If I had been there, 'I should
have said, I thank you exceedingly, sir, for your kind offer, but I
had rather earn the privilege of living in such a fine mansion. Won't
you please to try me in some way, and see if I don't exactly obey your
orders.' Then he'd have seen one boy that could walk right up to the
mark." Walter drew up his form, and stood resolute and determined.

His father gazed at him with a sad smile; and Anna wondered to see her
aunt wipe a tear from her eye.

"What did Edward say?" asked Helen.

"He said nothing. He had no voice in which to utter his thanks; the
proposition was beyond what he could realize, from his utter, forlorn,
and hopeless wretchedness, to free, full, and entire bliss. Indeed he
was lost in wonder, love, and praise. He lifted his eyes, streaming
with tears, to his cousin's face, and, catching him by the hand,
whispered, 'I accept your offer, and henceforth shall delight to know
that all my dependence is upon one I so much esteem and love.'"

"And what did his wife and children say?" urged Walter, more moved than
he cared to have seen.

"His wife acknowledged that she was very grateful; but she thought it
would be too great an obligation. She told her husband, when their
benefactor had gone to make arrangements for the sick man's removal,
that she should feel awkward, living in so splendid a place, dependent
upon a man with whom she was so little acquainted. And when, with
kindling eye, he urged her to give a full and hearty acceptance of so
generous an offer, saying that, since he had done so, he already began
to feel the comfort and blessedness of his new home, she replied that
she would think of it. On the whole she thought she would do so, but
not quite yet. When she had decided, she could easily follow him.

"Mary and Lucy, the two daughters of Edward, had sat, through the whole
interview with their relative, tightly clasping each other's hands.
When the glorious offer of a happy home was extended to them, they
rose at once, and going to him, said, 'We gladly, joyfully accept the
invitation. We are both of us sadly weary of this wretched life, and
are ready to leave it immediately.'

"The oldest boy expressed himself very much as Walter did just now.
Notwithstanding the wretchedness of the life he now lived, he had a
proud, independent spirit, and he said that if the gentleman would make
some kind of a bargain with him, he would gladly exchange his poor
hovel for a palace, and all the luxuries it contained; but he wanted
to earn it. He would do any thing that was required, however painful;
but something he must do, or he could not go. His brother, next in age,
said that those were exactly his feelings. He should not wish to live
in so elegant a home until he had done something to earn the privilege.

"The gentleman sadly shook his head, and told them the offer was
gratuitous, and must be accepted as such, adding, 'If you were to work
for me a hundred years, you could never earn such blessings as I am
willing freely to bestow.'

"And so, with pride and rebellion in their young hearts, they turned
away from him, and determined to live on in their old place.

"Little Freddy, the youngest child, sat by the couch of his father, his
little hand striving to wipe the moisture which constantly gathered
on the brow of the poor sufferer. As one and another made known their
decision, his wan cheek flushed, and a calm resolve passed through his
mind. When his brothers turned their backs upon their kind benefactor,
he went toward him, and, throwing himself into his embrace, exclaimed,
'O, take me! I love you more than all the world beside. I will go and
live with you forever.'"


Mr. Dermott arose, and walked back and forth through the apartment,
while the children sat silent and thoughtful.

At length he resumed his seat, and, addressing Anna, asked, "Can you
tell me who has prepared for us a glorious home above the skies?"

"Christ," the child seriously answered; "Jesus Christ."

"Yes, he has ransomed us and become the way whereby we may return
to our heavenly Father, whom we have offended. There can be no real
comparison between the case I have given you and the abounding love and
goodness of our Saviour, because, in the first case, I only referred to
the well-being of Edward and his family, and the benefits to them in
this world, while the blessings we may receive through the redemption
of Christ, which will be hereafter explained, will last through all
eternity.

"But I hope by this illustration you may be led to view the wonderful
love of our heavenly Father toward our guilty race. Paul, in his
Epistle to the Ephesians, says he did this 'according to the good
pleasure of his will.'

"In some lessons which we have gone over, we have explained to you
that when God created the world, he made his whole plan or decree
concerning it; and, of course, the system of redemption, as a whole and
in its minute details and application, was a part of it. Those savingly
interested in this plan he calls elect. Edward's uncle could not know,
beforehand, whether any of his relatives would accept his kind offer.
But if he had possessed the power of foreknowledge, they would have
been equally free to accept his offer.

"But, Walter, can you tell me what this new covenant is called?"

"The covenant of grace."

"What was the object of it? You may use your own words."

"To deliver men from their wretched condition, just as Edward's uncle
intended to deliver him and his family from their poverty and distress."

"Yes, and more than this; God offered to raise them to a seat at his
right hand, and to the glorious privileges of the sons of God. How can
he do this, Helen?"

"Through Christ, who died for us."

"Yes, through the sacrifice of his dear Son, who offered to be our
Redeemer."

"Do all gladly accept this salvation?"

Walter held down his head as he softly answered, "No, sir."

"No, many poor guilty sinners would do so if they could earn the right
to this happy home. Some do, indeed, think they earn it by outwardly
conforming to his requirements, while their hearts are alienated from
him; others by loudly professing to be his friends, and to be very
zealous in his cause; while still others are so deluded that they lie
upon beds of thorns, or scourge themselves with small cords, or go on
painful pilgrimages, wearing small stones in their shoes. But all these
methods cannot avail them; the salvation is free, without money and
without price."



CHAPTER XXI.

CHRIST THE REDEEMER; OR, THE PARDONED REBELS.


QUESTION XXI. _Who is the Redeemer of God's elect?_

ANSWER. The only Redeemer of God's elect is the Lord Jesus Christ, who,
being the eternal Son of God, became man, and so was, and continues to
be, God and man, in two distinct natures and one person, forever.

                              ——————

THE explanations connected with the last lesson made a deep impression
upon the mind of Walter. During the week following, he was unusually
serious and thoughtful, and at length sought his mother's chamber, when
he knew her to be alone, and, with tearful eyes, asked, "How can I be
sure that God has elected me to be one of his children?"

Mrs. Dermott, with deep emotion, replied, "If you are willing to give
your heart to him, and accept Christ as your Saviour, you may be sure
of it, my child."

It was, therefore, with prayerful interest that Mr. and Mrs. Dermott
met their dear children on the evening appointed for the exercise.

Having heard the answer repeated, the father asked, "Helen, who is the
Lord Jesus Christ?"

"He is the Redeemer, the eternal Son of God."

"Do you understand the meaning of that answer?"

Helen shook her head.

"I will answer for you," said her mother. "It means that from all
eternity he sustained the relation of Son to the everlasting Father—

   "'Thou art the Son of the living God.'

"Twelve years ago, Walter began to sustain the relation of son to your
father; and so existence commenced with every son of the human race;
the angels also began to be. There was a time when all these did not
exist, and another time when they began to be God's children. Jesus
Christ, as the son of man, began to exist almost two thousand years
ago. But Jesus Christ, as the Son of God, never began to exist. Unto
his Son God said,—

   "'Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. A sceptre of righteousness
 is the sceptre of thy kingdom.'

   "'And let all the angels of God worship him.'

"These two natures, that of the Son of God, and that of the son of
man," added Mr. Dermott, "he unites in the office of the only Redeemer
of God's elect. These will continue forever."


"I will illustrate some of these sentiments by another parable. We will
suppose, then, that upon a sea-girt isle, there once reigned a great
and good king, who had one only and dearly beloved son, the heir to his
kingdom and great revenues. The son was associated with his father in
every act for the good of the empire, and the most tender, confiding
affection existed between them.

"On one occasion, a large number of men associated together to rebel
against the government. The knowledge of this coming to the throne, the
rebels were tried, found guilty, and expelled from the island.

"Not many months elapsed before a rumor reached the king that these
men were engaged in privateering around the island, plundering and
then setting fire to vessels either approaching or receding from
the shore. This unlawful and wicked course was continued for years,
notwithstanding the utmost vigilance of the officers appointed to
apprehend them.

"At length there arose a great storm, which lasted for several days.
Multitudes of small vessels were driven upon the reefs surrounding the
shore, and were rescued by the kindness of the islanders. Toward the
close of the third day of the terrible tempest, a large vessel was seen
driving furiously toward the rocks. The king, from his palace, gazed
upon the scene with feelings of the tenderest compassion. The surf,
lashing itself into foam, was dashing furiously toward the shore; and
there, at the distance of a mile, lay a noble brig dismasted and in
distress.

"Summoning the prince, the king ascended to the tower of his palace,
where a powerful glass enabled him to view the awful scene with more
distinctness. The distressed mariners were running to and fro on board
the vessel, some lashing themselves to spars or pieces of broken masts;
others were wringing their hands, or raising their arms imploringly to
heaven; while still other's had cast themselves down upon the deck in
an attitude of despair.

"With a pallid cheek and a trembling voice, the king announced to his
son, who stood at his side, that this vessel contained the company
of rebels who had conspired against the throne, and who, for a long
period, had been guilty of plundering the sea.

"'Yes, sire,' answered the prince, after having looked through the
glass. 'It is indeed so. I can distinctly recognize the ringleaders in
the midst of the crew.'

"The king again approached the glass, and gazed in silence upon the
wreck. Then hastening to the shore, accompanied by his son, he offered
large rewards to those who would go to the rescue of the wrecked and
drowning mariners. But no one could be found ready to take his life in
his hand, and venture upon the boiling surf, even to obtain the prize.

"At length the prince came forward among the crowd, and, approaching
his father, said, 'Here am I, sire; send me.'

"The compassionate heart of the sovereign yearned after his guilty
subjects. He longed to rescue them, and restore them to favor.
Withdrawing with the prince from the crowd, he cried, 'Go, my son, and
my love and blessing shall follow you. Go and tell the poor guilty
creatures, I offer them free pardon if they will return to their
allegiance, and become dutiful subjects.'

"From his previous knowledge of their character, and of the agencies to
be exerted on them, he then told his son who would accept this pardon
and be induced to return with him, and, having embraced and blessed
him, followed him to the life-boat.

"He then hastened back to the tower, where his eagle eye watched the
bark as it floated over the seething, crested waves. Suddenly he cried
out in the anguish of his soul. A great wave had struck the frail boat,
and it was ingulfed in the angry waters.

"But no; there presently appeared a little speck in the distance. With
what intense, breathless anxiety he watched the scene!

"Wiping his dim eyes, he at length perceived that his son had buffeted
the waves, and was clinging to the bottom of the boat. But he had
hardly begun to breathe more freely, before the same thing occurred
again and again. So that when the prince reached the wrecked vessel, he
was scarcely able to mount the deck, to which the boat was made fast by
means of a long rope.

"The prince made his way along the deck, which was covered with broken
pieces of timber, and made known his errand. With the earnest love
which had led him to encounter so much danger for their sakes, he now
besought them to leave their wrecked and ruined brig, and accept his
father's offers of mercy. Those whom the king had mentioned to his
son, threw themselves, without reserve, into his arms, surrendering
themselves, and all they had, to his will. But the others refused to
comply, even preferring to remain on board their craft, which was
fast going to pieces. Every tender persuasion was of no avail; and at
length, with the chosen few, the prince sadly entered the life-boat to
return to the shore.

"But before cutting the line which would destroy the last hope of the
poor outlaws, he stretched out his arms toward them, beseeching them,
as they valued their own lives, and the sacrifice he had made for them,
to lay down their arms in token of their submission to his authority,
that he might have the unspeakable pleasure of presenting them all to
his father as the fruits of his suffering.

"But all these tender entreaties only made the wrath of the guilty
pirates more terrible. With loud cries they bade him begone, hurling
their weapons in defiance at the boat, and refusing longer even to
listen to his words of love.

"Those who were accompanying the prince, being made willing to accept
his mediation with the king, bowed their heads in shame at the insolent
conduct of their late companions; scalding tears of anguish and remorse
ran down their cheeks as they remembered how recently they had joined
in this wicked rebellion. The language of their hearts was, 'O, with
what a wonderful love hath he drawn our guilty hearts to himself! What
boundless goodness that we are not only saved alive, but pardoned and
restored to all the privileges of the kingdom!'

"As they drew near the shore, their emotions increased, and they cried
aloud, 'How can we appear in the presence of our justly offended
sovereign? Our iniquity seems too great for him to forgive. O, why
did we never, till now, view ourselves as vile and guilty before him!
Surely our sins have rendered us blind to our own unworthiness, as well
as wanting in obedience toward him.'

"'Comfort yourselves, my dear friends,' exclaimed the prince; 'my
father has accepted my sufferings and labors as a sacrifice for your
guilt, and your pardon is free and entire. Forget, then, the things
that are past, and endeavor, by your zeal in his service, to show your
gratitude for the favors you have received.'

"When the life-boat, with its precious freight of souls, drew
toward the land, many stood back with fear, as they recognized the
outlaws; but this emotion was instantly changed to joy, as the prince
accompanied them to his father, and presented them as the reward of
his toil. 'Here am I, sire, and the people who have been redeemed
from death by my agonizing exertions. In your name I have promised
that the sentence pronounced against them should be reversed, and
that, accepting me as their ransom, they should be admitted to all the
privileges of children of a merciful sovereign.'

"Here the pardoned rebels cast themselves down at the feet of the king,
confessing their hatred of themselves and the life they had pursued
since they departed from his requirements, resolutely declaring their
determination henceforth to live lives of obedience and integrity,
that they might in some humble degree express their gratitude and love
toward him who had been willing to give his life a ransom for theirs.

"When the multitude, who had been crowding near, heard these words,
there arose one long-continued shout of rejoicing, in which might be
heard these words: 'Our glorious Prince! May he reign over us forever
and ever! For his sake we joyfully, exultingly, welcome home those whom
he has so loved, and who will help to swell the song of praise to his
name forever and ever.'"

While Mr. Dermott had been speaking, Walter's tears silently trickled
down his cheeks. He evidently was applying the parable to his own case.

After a moment's pause, the gentleman continued: "We are the rebels
against God, the king. Jesus Christ is our prince, who has offered his
life a sacrifice for our sins, that we may obtain pardon and peace.
Those of us who receive him as our Saviour are his elect, whom he
carries in the life-boat of salvation to the kingdom of his Father in
heaven."

Dear children, who have all of you violated God's holy law, and are
living afar off, having incurred his displeasure, will you not confess
and forsake your sins, joyfully embracing his Son as your Prince, your
Saviour, and Redeemer?
